CIK: 1000228
Company Name: HENRY SCHEIN INC
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2023-02-21
Accession Number: 0001000228-23-000011


ITEM 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements In accordance with the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we provide the following cautionary remarks regarding important factors that, among others, could cause future results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements, expectations and assumptions expressed or implied herein. All forward-looking statements made by us are subject to risks and uncertainties and are not guarantees of future performance. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance and achievements or industry results to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. These statements are generally identified by the use of such terms as may, could, expect, intend, believe, plan, estimate, forecast, project, anticipate, to be, to make or other comparable terms. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and in particular the risks discussed under the caption Risk Factors in Item 1A of this report and those that may be discussed in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Forward looking statements include the overall impact of the Novel Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) on us, our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition (including any estimates of the impact on these items), the rate and consistency with which dental and other practices resume or maintain normal operations in the United States and internationally, expectations regarding personal protective equipment ( PPE ) products and COVID-19 related product sales and inventory levels, whether additional resurgences or variants of the virus will adversely impact the resumption of normal operations, whether supply chain disruptions will adversely impact our business, the impact of integration and restructuring programs as well as of any future acquisitions, general economic conditions including exchange rates, inflation and recession, and more generally current expectations regarding performance in current and future periods. Forward looking statements also include the (i) our ability to have continued access to a variety of COVID-19 test types, expectations regarding COVID-19 test sales, demand and inventory levels, as well as the efficacy or relative efficacy of the test results given that the test efficacy has not been, or will not have been, independently verified under normal FDA procedures and (ii) potential for us to distribute the COVID-19 vaccines and ancillary supplies. Risk factors and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current and historical results include, but are not limited to: risks associated with COVID-19 and any variants thereof, as well as other disease outbreaks, epidemics, pandemics, or similar wide-spread public health concerns and other natural disasters; our dependence on third parties for the manufacture and supply of our products; our ability to develop or acquire and maintain and protect new products (particularly technology products) and technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins; transitional challenges associated with acquisitions, dispositions and joint ventures, including the failure to achieve anticipated synergies/benefits; legal, regulatory, compliance, cybersecurity, financial and tax risks associated with acquisitions, dispositions and joint ventures; certain provisions in our governing documents that may discourage third-party acquisitions of us; adverse changes in supplier rebates or other purchasing incentives; risks related to the sale of corporate brand products; effects of a highly competitive (including, without limitation, competition from third-party online commerce sites) and consolidating market; the repeal or judicial prohibition on implementation of the Affordable Care Act; changes in the health care industry; risks from expansion of customer purchasing power and multi-tiered costing structures; increases in shipping costs for our products or other service issues with our third-party shippers; general global and domestic macro-economic and political conditions, including inflation, deflation, recession, fluctuations in energy pricing and the value of the U.S. dollar as compared to foreign currencies, and changes to other economic indicators, international trade agreements, potential trade barriers and terrorism; failure to comply with existing and future regulatory requirements; risks associated with the EU Medical Device Regulation; failure to comply with laws and regulations relating to health care fraud or other laws and regulations; failure to comply with laws and regulations relating to the collection, storage and processing of sensitive personal information or standards in electronic health records or transmissions; changes in tax legislation; risks related to product liability, intellectual property and other claims; litigation risks; new or unanticipated litigation developments and the status of litigation matters; risks associated with customs policies or legislative import restrictions; cyberattacks or other privacy or data security breaches; risks associated with our global operations; our dependence on our senior management, employee hiring and retention, and our relationships with customers, suppliers and manufacturers; and disruptions in financial markets. The order in which these factors appear should not be construed to indicate their relative importance or priority. Table of Contents 44 We caution that these factors may not be exhaustive and that many of these factors are beyond our ability to control or predict. Accordingly, any forward-looking statements contained herein should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results. We undertake no duty and have no obligation to update forward-looking statements except as required by law. Where You Can Find Important Information We may disclose important information through one or more of the following channels: SEC filings, public conference calls and webcasts, press releases, the investor relations page of our website (www.henryschein.com) and the social media channels identified on the Newsroom page of our website. Recent Developments The COVID-19 pandemic negatively impacted the global economy, disrupted global supply chains and created significant volatility and disruption of global financial markets in 2020 and 2021. The impact of COVID-19 had a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows in 2020. During the year ended December 25, 2021, patient traffic levels returned to levels approaching pre-pandemic levels. Demand for dental products and certain medical products throughout 2021 was driven by sales of PPE and COVID-19 test kits. During the year ended December 31, 2022 we experienced a decrease in the sales volume of PPE and COVID-19 test kits. The volatility in sales of COVID-19 test kits has moderated, albeit at a significantly lower level of sales compared with 2021, resulting in us recording an inventory obsolescence reserve of $17 million for COVID-19 test kits during the year ended December 31, 2022. While the U.S. economy has recently experienced inflationary pressures and strengthening of the U.S dollar, their impacts have not been material to our results of operations in the fourth quarter or full year ended December 31, 2022, and we currently expect moderating of inflation and foreign currency fluctuations. Though inflation impacts both our revenues and costs, the depth and breadth of our product portfolio often allows us to offer lower-cost national brand solutions or corporate brand alternatives to our more price-sensitive customers who are unable to absorb price increases, thus positioning us to protect our gross profit. Our consolidated financial statements reflect estimates and assumptions made by us that affect, among other things, our goodwill, long-lived asset and definite-lived intangible asset valuation; inventory valuation; equity investment valuation; assessment of the annual effective tax rate; valuation of deferred income taxes and income tax contingencies; the allowance for doubtful accounts; hedging activity; supplier rebates; measurement of compensation cost for certain share-based performance awards and cash bonus plans; and pension plan assumptions. Due to the significant uncertainty surrounding the future impact of COVID-19, our judgments regarding estimates and impairments could change in the future. There is an ongoing risk that the COVID-19 pandemic may again have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows and may result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity. However, the extent of the potential impact cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. Table of Contents 45 Executive-Level Overview Henry Schein, Inc. is a solutions company for health care professionals powered by a network of people and technology. We believe we are the world largest provider of health care products and services primarily to office- based dental and medical practitioners, as well as alternate sites of care. We serve more than one million customers worldwide including dental practitioners, laboratories, physician practices, and ambulatory surgery centers, as well as government, institutional health care clinics and other alternate care clinics. We believe that we have a strong brand identity due to our more than 90 years of experience distributing health care products. We are headquartered in Melville, New York, employ approximately 22,000 people (of which approximately 10,700 are based outside of the United States) and have operations or affiliates in 32 countries and territories. Our broad global footprint has evolved over time through our organic success as well as through contribution from strategic acquisitions. We have established strategically located distribution centers around the world to enable us to better serve our customers and increase our operating efficiency. This infrastructure, together with broad product and service offerings at competitive prices, and a strong commitment to customer service, enables us to be a single source of supply for our customers needs. While our primary go-to-market strategy is in our capacity as a distributor, we also market and sell under our own corporate brand portfolio of cost-effective, high-quality consumable merchandise products, and manufacture certain dental specialty products in the areas of implants, orthodontics and endodontics. We have achieved scale in these global businesses primarily through acquisitions as manufacturers of these products typically do not utilize a distribution channel to serve customers. We conduct our business through two reportable segments: (i) health care distribution and (ii) technology and value-added services. These segments offer different products and services to the same customer base. Our global dental businesses serve office-based dental practitioners, dental laboratories, schools, government and other institutions. Our medical businesses serve physician offices, urgent care centers, ambulatory care sites, emergency medical technicians, dialysis centers, home health, federal and state governments and large enterprises, such as group practices and integrated delivery networks, among other providers across a wide range of specialties. The health care distribution reportable segment, combining our global dental and medical operating segments, distributes consumable products, small equipment, laboratory products, large equipment, equipment repair services, branded and generic pharmaceuticals, vaccines, surgical products, dental specialty products (including implant, orthodontic and endodontic products), diagnostic tests, infection-control products, PPE products and vitamins. Our global technology and value-added services business provides software, technology and other value-added services to health care practitioners. Our technology business offerings include practice management software systems for dental and medical practitioners. Our value-added practice solutions include practice consultancy, education, revenue cycle management and financial services on a non-recourse basis, e-services, practice technology, network and hardware services, as well as consulting, and continuing education services for practitioners. A key element to grow closer to our customers is our One Schein initiative, which is a unified go-to-market approach that enables practitioners to work synergistically with our supply chain, equipment sales and service and other value-added services, allowing our customers to leverage the combined value that we offer through a single program. Specifically, One Schein provides customers with streamlined access to our comprehensive offering of national brand products, our corporate brand products and proprietary specialty products and solutions (including implant, orthodontic and endodontic products). In addition, customers have access to a wide range of services, including software and other value-added services. Table of Contents 46 Industry Overview In recent years, the health care industry has increasingly focused on cost containment. This trend has benefited distributors capable of providing a broad array of products and services at low prices. It also has accelerated the growth of HMOs, group practices, other managed care accounts and collective buying groups, which, in addition to their emphasis on obtaining products at competitive prices, tend to favor distributors capable of providing specialized management information support. We believe that the trend towards cost containment has the potential to favorably affect demand for technology solutions, including software, which can enhance the efficiency and facilitation of practice management. Our operating results in recent years have been significantly affected by strategies and transactions that we undertook to expand our business, domestically and internationally, in part to address significant changes in the health care industry, including consolidation of health care distribution companies, health care reform, trends toward managed care, cuts in Medicare and collective purchasing arrangements. Our current and future results have been and could be impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, the current economic environment and continued economic and public health uncertainty. Since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic in early 2020, we have been carefully monitoring its impact on our global operations and have taken appropriate steps to minimize the risk to our employees. We have seen and expect to continue to see changes in demand trends for some of our products and services, supply chain challenges and labor challenges, as rates of infection fluctuate, new strains or variants of COVID-19 emerge and spread, governments adapt their approaches to combatting the virus, and local conditions change across geographies. As a result, we expect to see continued volatility. Industry Consolidation The health care products distribution industry, as it relates to office-based health care practitioners, is fragmented and diverse. The industry ranges from sole practitioners working out of relatively small offices to group practices or service organizations ranging in size from a few practitioners to a large number of practitioners who have combined or otherwise associated their practices. Due in part to the inability of office-based health care practitioners to store and manage large quantities of supplies in their offices, the distribution of health care supplies and small equipment to office-based health care practitioners has been characterized by frequent, small quantity orders, and a need for rapid, reliable and substantially complete order fulfillment. The purchasing decisions within an office-based health care practice are typically made by the practitioner or an administrative assistant. Supplies and small equipment are generally purchased from more than one distributor, with one generally serving as the primary supplier. The trend of consolidation extends to our customer base. Health care practitioners are increasingly seeking to partner, affiliate or combine with larger entities such as hospitals, health systems, group practices or physician hospital organizations. In many cases, purchasing decisions for consolidated groups are made at a centralized or professional staff level; however, orders are delivered to the practitioners offices. We believe that consolidation within the industry will continue to result in a number of distributors, particularly those with limited financial, operating and marketing resources, seeking to combine with larger companies that can provide growth opportunities. This consolidation also may continue to result in distributors seeking to acquire companies that can enhance their current product and service offerings or provide opportunities to serve a broader customer base. Our approach to acquisitions and joint ventures has been to expand our role as a provider of products and services to the health care industry. This trend has resulted in our expansion into service areas that complement our existing operations and provide opportunities for us to develop synergies with, and thus strengthen, the acquired businesses. As industry consolidation continues, we believe that we are positioned to capitalize on this trend, as we believe we have the ability to support increased sales through our existing infrastructure, although there can be no assurances that we will be able to successfully accomplish this. We also have invested in expanding our sales/marketing Table of Contents 47 infrastructure to include a focus on building relationships with decision makers who do not reside in the office- based practitioner setting. As the health care industry continues to change, we continually evaluate possible candidates for joint venture or acquisition and intend to continue to seek opportunities to expand our role as a provider of products and services to the health care industry. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully pursue any such opportunity or consummate any such transaction, if pursued. If additional transactions are entered into or consummated, we would incur merger and/or acquisition-related costs, and there can be no assurance that the integration efforts associated with any such transaction would be successful. Aging Population and Other Market Influences The health care products distribution industry continues to experience growth due to the aging population, increased health care awareness, the proliferation of medical technology and testing, new pharmacology treatments, and expanded third-party insurance coverage, partially offset by the effects of unemployment on insurance coverage. In addition, the physician market continues to benefit from the shift of procedures and diagnostic testing from acute care settings to alternate-care sites, particularly physicians offices. According to the U.S. Census Bureau International Database, between 2022 and 2032, the 45 and older population is expected to grow by approximately 11%. Between 2022 and 2042, this age group is expected to grow by approximately 21%. This compares with expected total U.S. population growth rates of approximately 6% between 2022 and 2032 and approximately 12% between 2022 and 2042. According to the U.S. Census Bureau International Database, in 2022 there are approximately seven million Americans aged 85 years or older, the segment of the population most in need of long-term care and elder-care services. By the year 2050, that number is projected to nearly triple to approximately 19 million. The population aged 65 to 84 years is projected to increase by approximately 27% during the same period. As a result of these market dynamics, annual expenditures for health care services continue to increase in the United States. We believe that demand for our products and services will grow while continuing to be impacted by current and future operating, economic, and industry conditions. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, published National Health Expenditure Data indicating that total national health care spending reached approximately $4.3 trillion in 2021, or 18.3% of the nation gross domestic product, the benchmark measure for annual production of goods and services in the United States. Health care spending is projected to reach approximately $6.2 trillion in 2028, or 19.7% of the nation projected gross domestic product. Government Our businesses are generally subject to numerous laws and regulations that could impact our financial performance, and failure to comply with such laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. See Item 1. Business Governmental Regulations for a discussion of laws, regulations and governmental activity that may affect our results of operations and financial condition. Table of Contents 48 Results of Operations Refer to Item 7: Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K for management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for the fiscal year 2021 compared to fiscal year 2020. The following tables summarize the significant components of our operating results and cash flows from continuing operations: Years Ended December 31, December 25, December 26, 2022 2021 2020 Operating results: Net sales $ 12,647 $ 12,401 $ 10,119 Cost of sales 8,816 8,727 7,303 Gross profit 3,831 3,674 2,816 Operating expenses: Selling, general and administrative 2,771 2,634 2,086 Depreciation and amortization 182 180 163 Restructuring and integration costs 131 8 32 Operating income $ 747 $ 852 $ 535 Other expense, net $ (26) $ (21) $ (35) Gain on sale of equity investments, net of tax - 7 2 Net income from continuing operations 566 660 419 Income from discontinued operations, net of tax - - 1 Net income attributable to Henry Schein, Inc. 538 631 404 Years Ended December 31, December 25, December 26, 2022 2021 2020 Cash flows: Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations $ 602 $ 710 $ 594 Net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations (276) (677) (115) Net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations (315) (333) (182) Table of Contents 49 Plans of Restructuring and Integration Costs On August 1, 2022, we committed to a restructuring plan focused on funding the priorities of the strategic plan and streamlining operations and other initiatives to increase efficiency. We expect this initiative to extend through 2023. We are currently unable in good faith to make a determination of an estimate of the amount or range of amounts expected to be incurred in connection with these activities, both with respect to each major type of cost associated therewith and with respect to the total cost, or an estimate of the amount or range of amounts that will result in future cash expenditures. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded restructuring charges of $128 million primarily related to severance and employee-related costs, accelerated amortization of right-of-use lease assets, impairment of other long-lived assets and lease exit costs. During the three months ended December 31, 2022, in connection with our restructuring plan, we vacated one of the buildings at our corporate headquarters in Melville NY, which resulted in an accelerated amortization of right- of-use lease asset of $34 million. We also initiated the disposal of a non-profitable US business and recorded related costs of $49 million which primarily consisted of impairment of intangible assets and goodwill, inventory impairment, and severance and employee-related costs. These expenses are included in the $128 million of restructuring charges discussed above. The disposal is expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2023. On August 26, 2022, we acquired Midway Dental Supply. In connection with this acquisition, during the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded integration costs of $3 million related to one-time employee and other costs, as well as restructuring charges of $9 million, which are included in the $128 million of restructuring charges discussed above. On November 20, 2019, we committed to a contemplated restructuring initiative intended to mitigate stranded costs associated with the spin-off of our animal health business and to rationalize operations and provide expense efficiencies. These activities were originally expected to be completed by the end of 2020 but we extended them to the end of 2021 in light of the changes to the business environment brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic. The restructuring activities under this prior initiative were completed in 2021. Table of Contents 50 2022 Compared to 2021 Net Sales Net sales were as follows: % of % of Increase / (Decrease) 2022 Total 2021 Total $ % Health care distribution (1) Dental $ 7,473 59.1 % $ 7,544 60.8 % $ (71) (0.9) % Medical 4,451 35.2 4,210 34.0 241 5.7 Total health care distribution 11,924 94.3 11,754 94.8 170 1.4 Technology and value-added services (2) 723 5.7 647 5.2 76 11.8 Total $ 12,647 100.0 $ 12,401 100.0 $ 246 2.0 The components of our sales growth were as follows: Local Currency Growth Total Sales Growth Foreign Exchange Impact Total Local Currency Growth Acquisition Growth Extra Week Impact Local Internal Growth Health care distribution (1) Dental Merchandise (2.6) % (3.5) % 0.9 % 1.3 % 1.0 % (1.4) % Dental Equipment 4.7 (4.6) 9.3 0.6 2.3 6.4 Total Dental (0.9) (3.7) 2.8 1.2 1.2 0.4 Medical 5.7 (0.3) 6.0 2.4 1.5 2.1 Total Health Care Distribution 1.4 (2.5) 3.9 1.6 1.3 1.0 Technology and value-added services (2) 11.8 (1.5) 13.3 5.4 0.8 7.1 Total 2.0 (2.4) 4.4 1.8 1.3 1.3 Note: Percentages for Net Sales; Gross Profit; Selling, General and Administrative; Other Expense, Net; and Income Taxes are based on actual values and may not recalculate due to rounding. (1) Consists of consumable products, small equipment, laboratory products, large equipment, equipment repair services, branded and generic pharmaceuticals, vaccines, surgical products, dental specialty products (including implant, orthodontic and endodontic products), diagnostic tests, infection-control products, PPE products and vitamins. (2) Consists of practice management software and other value-added products, which are distributed primarily to health care providers, practice consultancy, education, revenue cycle management and financial services on a non-recourse basis, e-services, continuing education services for practitioners, consulting and other services. Global Sales Global net sales for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased 2.0% based upon the components presented in the table above. We estimate that sales for the year ended December 31, 2022 of PPE products and COVID-19 test kits were approximately $1,245 million, an estimated decrease of 34.7% versus the prior year. Excluding PPE products and COVID-19 test kits, the estimated increase in internally generated local currency sales was 6.7%. Dental Dental net sales for the year ended December 31, 2022 decreased 0.9% based upon the components presented in the table above. Our sales growth in local currency for dental merchandise decreased primarily due to a decrease in PPE product sales. We estimate that global dental sales for the year ended December 31, 2022 of PPE products were approximately $447 million, an estimated decrease of 32.5% versus the prior year. Excluding PPE products, the estimated increase in internally generated local currency dental sales was 3.8%. Dental equipment sales in local currency increased in both our North American and international markets, primarily due to increased demand. Table of Contents 51 Medical Medical net sales for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased 5.7% based upon the components presented in the table above. Globally, we estimate our medical business recorded sales of approximately $798 million of sales of PPE products and COVID-19 test kits for the year ended December 31, 2022, an estimated decrease of approximately 27.4% compared to the prior year. Excluding PPE products and COVID-19 test kits, the estimated increase in internally generated local currency medical sales was 2.1%. Te chnology and value-added services Technology and value-added services net sales for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased 11.8% based upon the components presented in the table above. During the year ended December 31, 2022, the trend for transactional software sales improved as we increased the number of users, generating demand for our sales cycle management solutions, and also from cloud-based solutions that drive practice efficiency and patient engagement. Gross Profit Gross profit and gross margin percentages by segment and in total were as follows: Gross Gross Increase 2022 Margin % 2021 Margin % $ % Health care distribution $ 3,357 28.2 % $ 3,239 27.6 % $ 118 3.6 % Technology and value-added services 474 65.5 435 67.2 39 9.0 Total $ 3,831 30.3 $ 3,674 29.6 $ 157 4.3 As a result of different practices of categorizing costs associated with distribution networks throughout our industry, our gross margins may not necessarily be comparable to other distribution companies. Additionally, we realize substantially higher gross margin percentages in our technology and value-added services segment than in our health care distribution segment. These higher gross margins result from being both the developer and seller of software products and services, as well as certain financial services. The software industry typically realizes higher gross margins to recover investments in research and development. Within our health care distribution segment, gross profit margins may vary from one period to the next. Changes in the mix of products sold as well as changes in our customer mix have been the most significant drivers affecting our gross profit margin. For example, sales of our corporate brand products achieve gross profit margins that are higher than average total gross profit margins of all products. With respect to customer mix, sales to our large- group customers are typically completed at lower gross margins due to the higher volumes sold as opposed to the gross margin on sales to office-based practitioners, who normally purchase lower volumes. Health care distribution gross profit increased primarily due to the increase in net sales discussed above. The overall increase in our health care distribution gross profit was attributable to $67 million of gross profit from acquisitions and gross margin expansion, mainly as a result of increased sales mix of higher-margin products. Technology and value-added services gross profit increased as a result of an increase in gross profit from internally generated sales and gross profit from acquisitions, partially offset by a decrease in gross margin rates. Gross margin rates decreased primarily due to lower gross margins of recently acquired companies in the business services sector and our continued investment in product development and customer service. Table of Contents 52 Operating Expenses Operating expenses (consisting of selling, general and administrative expenses; depreciation and amortization, restructuring and integration costs) by segment and in total were as follows: % of % of Respective Respective Increase 2022 Net Sales 2021 Net Sales $ % Health care distribution $ 2,738 23.0 % $ 2,512 21.4 % $ 226 9.0 % Technology and value-added services 346 47.8 310 48.0 36 11.4 Total $ 3,084 24.4 $ 2,822 22.8 $ 262 9.3 The net increase in operating expenses is attributable to the following: Change in Restructuring and Integration Costs Increase in Operating Costs Acquisitions Total Health care distribution $ 121 $ 39 $ 66 $ 226 Technology and value-added services 2 20 14 36 Total $ 123 $ 59 $ 80 $ 262 The increase in restructuring and integration costs is attributable to our disposal of an unprofitable business, acceleration of amortization of right-of-use lease assets related to the exit from one of the properties at our corporate headquarters, severance costs, and other costs relating to the exit of some facilities. The increase in operating costs includes a $20 million intangible assets impairment charge within our health care distribution segment, and increases in payroll and payroll related costs and travel and convention expenses in both of our reportable segments. While the U.S. economy has recently experienced inflationary pressures and strengthening of the U.S dollar, their impacts have not been material to our results of operations. Other Expense, Net Other expense, net was as follows: Variance 2022 2021 $ % Interest income $ 17 $ 7 $ 10 158.9 % Interest expense (44) (28) (16) (59.1) Other, net 1 - 1 n/a Other expense, net $ (26) $ (21) $ (5) (26.0) Interest income increased primarily due to increased interest rates. Interest expense increased primarily due to increased borrowings and increased interest rates. Income Taxes For the year ended December 31, 2022, our effective tax rate was 23.5% compared to 23.8% for the prior year period. In 2022, the difference between our effective tax rate and the federal statutory tax rate primarily relates to state and foreign income taxes and interest expense. In 2021, the difference between our effective tax rate and the federal statutory tax rate was primarily due to state and foreign income taxes and interest expense. Gain on Sale of Equity Investment In the third quarter of 2021, we received contingent proceeds of $10 million from the 2019 sale of Hu-Friedy resulting in the recognition of an additional after-tax gain of $7 million. No further proceeds are expected from this sale. Table of Contents 53 Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal capital requirements have included funding of acquisitions, purchases of additional noncontrolling interests, repayments of debt principal, the funding of working capital needs, purchases of fixed assets and repurchases of common stock. Working capital requirements generally result from increased sales, special inventory forward buy-in opportunities and payment terms for receivables and payables. Historically, sales have tended to be stronger during the second half of the year and special inventory forward buy-in opportunities have been most prevalent just before the end of the year, and have caused our working capital requirements to be higher from the end of the third quarter to the end of the first quarter of the following year. We finance our business primarily through cash generated from our operations, revolving credit facilities and debt placements. Please see Note 12 Debt for further information. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations is dependent on the continued demand of our customers for our products and services, and access to products and services from our suppliers. Our business requires a substantial investment in working capital, which is susceptible to fluctuations during the year as a result of inventory purchase patterns and seasonal demands. Inventory purchase activity is a function of sales activity, special inventory forward buy-in opportunities and our desired level of inventory. We anticipate future increases in our working capital requirements. We finance our business to provide adequate funding for at least 12 months. Funding requirements are based on forecasted profitability and working capital needs, which, on occasion, may change. Consequently, we may change our funding structure to reflect any new requirements. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents, our ability to access private debt markets and public equity markets, and our available funds under existing credit facilities provide us with sufficient liquidity to meet our currently foreseeable short-term and long-term capital needs. Net cash provided by operating activities was $602 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to net cash from continuing operations provided by operating activities of $710 million for the prior year. The net change of $108 million was primarily due to unfavorable net cash used by our working capital accounts, net of acquisitions, driven by an impact of timing of payments which resulted in an increase in other current assets and relative decreases in accounts payable and accrued expenses, partially offset by the relative year over year impact of inventory increases (2021 increase was more significant than the 2022 increase). Net cash used in investing activities was $276 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to $677 million for the prior year. The net change of $401 million was primarily attributable to decreased payments for equity investments and business acquisitions. Net cash used in financing activities was $315 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to net cash used in financing activities of $333 million for the prior year. The net change of $18 million was primarily due to increased net borrowings from debt, partially offset by increased repurchases of common stock. Table of Contents 54 The following table summarizes selected measures of liquidity and capital resources: December 31, December 25, 2022 2021 Cash and cash equivalents $ 117 $ 118 Working capital (1) 1,764 1,537 Debt: Bank credit lines $ 103 $ 51 Current maturities of long-term debt 6 11 Long-term debt 1,040 811 Total debt $ 1,149 $ 873 Leases: Current operating lease liabilities $ 73 $ 76 Non-current operating lease liabilities 275 268 (1) Includes $327 million and $138 million of certain accounts receivable which serve as security for U.S. trade accounts receivable securitization at December 31, 2022 and December 25, 2021, respectively. Our cash and cash equivalents consist of bank balances and investments in money market funds representing overnight investments with a high degree of liquidity. Accounts receivable days sales outstanding and inventory turns Our accounts receivable days sales outstanding from operations increased to 41.9 days as of December 31, 2022 from 41.8 days as of December 25, 2021. During the years ended December 31, 2022 and December 25, 2021, we wrote off approximately $10 million and $8 million, respectively, of fully reserved accounts receivable against our trade receivable reserve. Our inventory turns from operations was 4.7 as of December 31, 2022 and 5.2 as of December 25, 2021. Our working capital accounts may be impacted by current and future economic conditions. Contractual obligations The following table summarizes our contractual obligations related to fixed and variable rate long-term debt and finance lease obligations, including interest (assuming a weighted average interest rate of 4.3%), as well as inventory purchase commitments and operating lease obligations as of December 31, 2022: Payments due by period < 1 year 2 - 3 years 4 - 5 years > 5 years Total Contractual obligations: Long-term debt, including interest $ 41 $ 508 $ 134 $ 538 $ 1,221 Inventory purchase commitments 5 8 8 - 21 Operating lease obligations 82 122 79 98 381 Transition tax obligations 19 23 - - 42 Finance lease obligations, including interest 5 4 1 1 11 Total $ 152 $ 665 $ 222 $ 637 $ 1,676 For information relating to our debt please see Note 12 Debt . Table of Contents 55 Leases We have operating and finance leases for corporate offices, office space, distribution and other facilities, vehicles and certain equipment. Our leases have remaining terms of less than one year to approximately 19 years, some of which may include options to extend the leases for up to 15 years. As of December 31, 2022, our right-of-use assets related to operating leases were $284 million and our current and non-current operating lease liabilities were $73 million and $275 million, respectively. Please see Note 6 Leases for further information. Stock Repurchases On March 8, 2021, we announced the reinstatement of our share repurchase program, which had been temporarily suspended in April of 2020. From March 3, 2003 through December 31, 2022, we repurchased $4.5 billion, or 87,180,669 shares, under our common stock repurchase programs, with $115 million available as of December 31, 2022 for future common stock share repurchases. On February 8, 2023, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $400 million in shares of our common stock. Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests Some minority stockholders in certain of our consolidated subsidiaries have the right, at certain times, to require us to acquire their ownership interest in those entities. Accounting Standards Codification ( ASC ) Topic 480-10 is applicable for noncontrolling interests where we are or may be required to purchase all or a portion of the outstanding interest in a consolidated subsidiary from the noncontrolling interest holder under the terms of a put option contained in contractual agreements. As of December 31, 2022 and December 25, 2021, our balance for redeemable noncontrolling interests was $576 million and $613 million, respectively. Please see Note 18 Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests for further information. Unrecognized tax benefits As more fully disclosed in Note 13 Income Taxes of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, we cannot reasonably estimate the timing of future cash flows related to the unrecognized tax benefits, including accrued interest, of $94 million as of December 31, 2022. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our accounting policies are more fully described in Note 1 Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies of the consolidated financial statements. The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical data, when available, experience, industry and market trends, and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the combined results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. However, by their nature, estimates are subject to various assumptions and uncertainties. Therefore, reported results may differ from estimates and any such differences may be material to our consolidated financial statements. We believe that the following critical accounting estimates, which have been discussed with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors, affect the significant estimates and judgments used in the preparation of our financial statements: Table of Contents 56 Inventories and Reserves Inventories consist primarily of finished goods and are valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Cost is determined by the first-in, first-out method for merchandise or actual cost for large equipment and high tech equipment. In estimating carrying value of inventory, we consider many factors including the condition and salability of the inventory by reviewing on-hand quantities, historical sales, forecasted sales and market and economic trends. Certain of our products, specifically PPE and COVID-19 test kits, have experienced changes in net realizable value, due to volatility of pricing and changes in demand for these products. Business Combinations The estimated fair value of acquired identifiable intangible assets (trademarks and trade names, customer relationships and lists, non-compete agreements and product development) is based on critical estimates, judgments and assumptions derived from: analysis of market conditions; discount rates; projected cash flows; customer retention rates; and estimated useful lives. Please see Note 4 Business Acquisitions and Divestitures for further discussion of our acquisitions. Goodwill Goodwill is subject to impairment analysis at least once annually as of the first day of our fourth quarter, or if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. Such impairment analyses for goodwill require a comparison of the fair value to the carrying value of reporting units. We regard our reporting units to be our operating segments: global dental, global medical, and technology and value-added services. Goodwill is allocated to such reporting units, for the purposes of preparing our impairment analyses, based on a specific identification basis. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets and liabilities that are considered shared services to the reporting units, and ultimately the determination of the fair value of each reporting unit. The fair value of each reporting unit is calculated by applying the discounted cash flow methodology and confirming with a market approach. There are inherent uncertainties, however, related to fair value models, the inputs and our judgments in applying them to this analysis. The most significant inputs include estimation of detailed future cash flows based on budget expectations, and determination of comparable companies to develop a weighted average cost of capital for each reporting unit. On an annual basis, we prepare annual and medium-term financial projections. These projections are based on input from our leadership and are presented annually to our Board of Directors. Influences on this year's forecasted financial information and the fair value model include: the impact of planned strategic initiatives, the continued integration of recent acquisitions and overall market conditions. The estimates used to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit change from year to year based on operating results, market conditions, and other factors. Our third-party valuation specialists provide inputs into our determination of the discount rate. The rate is dependent on a number of underlying assumptions, including the risk-free rate, tax rate, equity risk premium, debt to equity ratio and pre-tax cost of debt. Long-term growth rates are applied to our estimation of future cash flows. The long-term growth rates are tied to growth rates we expect to achieve beyond the years for which we have forecasted operating results. We also consider external benchmarks, and other data points which we believe are applicable to our industry and the composition of our global operations. Based on our quantitative assessment for the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded a $20 million impairment of goodwill relating to the disposal of an unprofitable business whose estimated fair value was lower than its carrying value. As part of our analysis for the rest of the goodwill balance, we performed a sensitivity analysis on the discount rate and long-term growth rate assumptions. The sensitivities did not result in any additional impairment charges. Table of Contents 57 Definite-Lived Intangible Assets Annually, definite-lived intangible assets such as non-compete agreements, trademarks, trade names, customer relationships and lists, and product development are reviewed for impairment indicators. If any impairment indicators exist, quantitative testing is performed on the asset. The quantitative impairment model is a two-step test under which we first calculate the recoverability of the carrying value by comparing the undiscounted, probability-weighted value of the projected cash flows associated with the asset or asset group, including its estimated residual value, to the carrying amount. If the cash flows associated with the asset or asset group are less than the carrying value, we would perform a fair value assessment of the asset, or asset group. If the carrying amount is found to be greater than the fair value, we record an impairment loss for the excess of book value over the fair value. In addition, in all cases of an impairment review, we re-evaluate the remaining useful lives of the assets and modify them, as appropriate. Although we believe our judgments, estimates and/or assumptions used in estimating cash flows and determining fair value are reasonable, making material changes to such judgments, estimates and/or assumptions could materially affect such impairment analyses and our financial results. During the years ended December 31, 2022, December 25, 2021 and December 26, 2020, we recorded total impairment charges on intangible assets of approximately $49 million ($34 million related to impairment of customer lists and relationships attributable to customer attrition rates being higher than expected in certain businesses and $15 million due to the disposal of an unprofitable business), $1 million and $20 million, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2022 impairment charges were recorded within our health care distribution segment. For the years ended December 25, 2021 and December 26, 2020, impairment charges were recorded within our health care distribution and technology and value-added services segments. Income Tax When determining if the realization of the deferred tax asset is likely by assessing the need for a valuation allowance, estimates and judgement are required. We consider all available evidence, both positive and negative, including estimated future taxable earnings, ongoing planning strategies, future reversals of existing temporary differences and historical operating results. Additionally, changes to tax laws and statutory tax rates can have an impact on our determination. Our intention is to evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets quarterly. ASC Topic 740 prescribes the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in the financial statements in accordance with other provisions contained within this guidance. This topic prescribes a recognition threshold and a measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. For those benefits to be recognized, a tax position must be more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by the taxing authorities. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that has a greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate audit settlement. In the normal course of business, our tax returns are subject to examination by various taxing authorities. Such examinations may result in future tax and interest assessments by these taxing authorities for uncertain tax positions taken in respect of certain tax matters. Please see Note 13 Income Taxes for further discussion. The FASB Staff Q&A, Topic 740 No. 5, Accounting for Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income ( GILTI ), states that an entity can make an accounting policy election to either recognize deferred taxes for temporary differences expected to reverse as GILTI in future years or provide for the tax expense related to GILTI in the year the tax is incurred. We elected to recognize the tax on GILTI as a period expense in the period the tax is incurred. Accounting Standards Update For a discussion of accounting standards updates that have been adopted or will be adopted in the future, please see Note 1 Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies included under Item 8. Table of Contents 58 
