CIK: 1057060
Company Name: MARINEMAX INC
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2023-11-17
Accession Number: 0000950170-23-064785


Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following should be read in conjunction with Part I, including the matters set forth in the Risk Factors section of this report, and our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this report. This section of this Form 10-K generally discusses fiscal 2023 and 2022 items and year-to-year comparisons between fiscal 2023 and 2022. Discussions of fiscal 2021 items and year-to-year comparisons between fiscal 2022 and 2021 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in the Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of the Company Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022. Overview We believe we are the largest recreational boat and yacht retailer and superyacht services company in the world. Through our current 81 retail locations in 21 states, we sell new and used recreational boats and related marine products, including engines, trailers, parts, and accessories. We also arrange related boat financing, insurance, and extended service contracts; provide boat repair and maintenance services; offer yacht and boat brokerage sales; and, where available, offer slip and storage accommodations. In the British Virgin Islands, we offer the charter of catamarans, through MarineMax Vacations. We also own Fraser Yachts Group, a leading superyacht brokerage and luxury yacht services company with operations in multiple countries, Northrop & Johnson, another leading superyacht brokerage and services company with operations in multiple countries, SkipperBud s, one of the largest boat sales, brokerage, service and marina/storage groups in the United States, and Cruisers Yachts, a manufacturer of sport yacht and yachts with sales through our select retail dealership locations and through independent dealers. In November 2021, we acquired Intrepid Powerboats, a manufacturer of powerboats, and Texas MasterCraft, a watersports dealer in Northern Texas. In April 2022, through Northrop & Johnson, we acquired Superyacht Management, S.A.R.L., better known as SYM, a superyacht management company based in Golfe-Juan, France. In August 2022, we expanded our presence in Texas by acquiring Endeavour Marina in Seabrook. In October 2022, we completed the acquisition of IGY Marinas. IGY Marinas maintains a network of luxury marinas situated in yachting and sport fishing destinations around the world. IGY Marinas has created standards for service and quality in nautical tourism. It offers a global network of marinas in the Americas, the Caribbean, Europe, and Asia, delivering year-round accommodations. IGY Marinas caters to a wide variety of luxury yachts, while also being exclusive home ports for some of the world largest megayachts. In December 2022, we acquired Midcoast Marine Group, a leading full-service marine construction company based on Central Florida's Gulf Coast. In January 2023, we acquired Boatzon, a boat and marine digital retail platform, through our recently formed technology entity, New Wave Innovations. In June 2023, we acquired C&C Boat Works, a full-service boat dealer in Crosslake, Minnesota. In October 2023, we acquired AGY, a luxury charter management agency based in Athens, Greece. MarineMax was incorporated in January 1998 (and reincorporated in Florida in March 2015). We commenced operations with the acquisition of five independent recreational boat dealers on March 1, 1998. Since the initial acquisitions in March 1998, we have, as of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, acquired 33 recreational boat dealers, five boat brokerage operations, two full-service yacht repair operations, five boat brokerage operations, and two boat and yacht manufacturers. As a part of our acquisition strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with various recreational boat dealers regarding their potential acquisition by us. Potential acquisition discussions frequently take place over a long period of time and involve difficult business integration and other issues, including, in some cases, management succession and related matters. As a result of these and other factors, a number of potential acquisitions that from time to time appear likely to occur do not result in binding legal agreements and are not consummated. We completed three acquisitions in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2021, four acquisitions in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022, and four acquisitions in the fiscal year ending September 30, 2023. General economic conditions and consumer spending patterns can negatively impact our operating results. Unfavorable local, regional, national or global economic developments or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects could reduce consumer spending in the markets we serve and adversely affect our business. Economic conditions in areas in which we operate dealerships, particularly Florida in which we generated approximately 50%, 51%, and 53% of our dealership revenue during fiscal 2021, 2022, and 2023, respectively, can have a major impact on our operations. Local influences, such as corporate downsizing, military base closings, and inclement weather such as hurricanes and other storms, environmental conditions, and specific events, such as the BP oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico in 2010, also could adversely affect, and in certain instances have adversely affected, our operations in certain markets. In an economic downturn, consumer discretionary spending levels generally decline, at times resulting in disproportionately large reductions in the sale of luxury goods. Consumer spending on luxury goods also may decline as a result of lower consumer confidence levels, even if prevailing economic conditions are favorable. Additionally, the Federal Reserve's increases of its benchmark interest rate, along with potential future increases and/or market expectations of such increases, has resulted in, and may further result in, significantly higher long-term interest rates, which may negatively impact our customers willingness or desire to purchase our products. As a result, an economic downturn or inflation could impact us more than certain of our competitors due to our strategic focus on a higher end of our market. Although we have expanded our operations during periods of stagnant or modestly declining industry trends, the cyclical nature of the recreational boating industry or the lack of industry growth may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and 41 results of operations. Any period of adverse economic conditions, low consumer confidence or inflation is likely to have a negative effect on our business. Historically, in periods of lower consumer spending and depressed economic conditions, we have, among other things, substantially reduced our acquisition program, delayed new store openings, reduced our inventory purchases, engaged in inventory reduction efforts, closed a number of our retail locations, reduced our headcount, and amended and replaced our credit facility. Although past economic conditions have adversely affected our operating results, we believe during and after such conditions we have capitalized on our core strengths to substantially outperform the industry, resulting in market share gains. Our ability to capture such market share supports the alignment of our retailing strategies with the desires of consumers. We believe the steps we have taken to address weak market conditions in the past have yielded, and we believe are likely to yield in the future, an increase in revenue. Acquisitions remain an important strategy for us, and, subject to a number of conditions, including macro-economic conditions and finding attractive acquisition targets, we plan to explore opportunities through this strategy. We expect our core strengths and retailing strategies including our digital platform, will position us to capitalize on growth opportunities as they occur and will allow us to emerge with greater earnings potential. Effective May 2, 2021, our reportable segments changed as a result of the Company acquisition of Cruisers Yachts, which changed management reporting structure and operating activities. We now report our operations through two new reportable segments: Retail Operations and Product Manufacturing. See Note 21 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. As of September 30, 2023, the Retail Operations segment includes the activity of 79 retail locations in Alabama, California, Connecticut, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Oklahoma, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Texas, Washington and Wisconsin, where we sell new and used recreational boats, including pleasure and fishing boats, with a focus on premium brands in each segment. We also sell related marine products, including engines, trailers, parts, and accessories. In addition, we provide repair, maintenance, and slip and storage rentals; we arrange related boat financing, insurance, and extended service contracts; and we offer boat and yacht brokerage sales, and yacht charter services. In the British Virgin Islands, we offer the charter of catamarans through MarineMax Vacations. Fraser Yachts Group and Northrop & Johnson, leading superyacht brokerage and luxury yacht services companies with operations in multiple countries, are also included in this segment. Through IGY Marinas, which is also included in this segment, we maintain a network of strategically positioned luxury marinas situated in yachting and sport fishing destinations around the world. The Retail Operations segment includes the majority of all corporate costs. As of September 30, 2023, the Product Manufacturing segment includes activity of Cruisers Yachts and Intrepid Powerboats. Cruisers Yachts, a wholly-owned MarineMax subsidiary, manufactures sport yacht and yachts with sales through our select retail dealership locations and through independent dealers. Cruisers Yachts is recognized as one of the world premier manufacturers of premium sport yacht and yachts, producing models from 33 to 60 feet. Intrepid Powerboats, also a wholly-owned MarineMax subsidiary, is a producer of customized boats. Intrepid Powerboats follows a direct-to-consumer distribution model and has received many awards and accolades for its innovations and high-quality craftsmanship that create industry leading products in their categories. Application of Critical Accounting Policies We have identified the policies below as critical to our business operations and the understanding of our results of operations. The impact and risks related to these policies on our business operations are discussed throughout Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations when such policies affect our reported and expected financial results. In the ordinary course of business, we make a number of estimates and assumptions relating to the reporting of results of operations and financial condition in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. We base our estimates on historical experiences and on various other assumptions (including future earnings) that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. The results of these assumptions form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities, including contingent assets and liabilities such as contingent consideration liabilities from acquisitions, which are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results could differ significantly from those estimates under different assumptions and conditions. We believe that the following discussion addresses our most critical accounting policies, which are those that are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require our most difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. 42 Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue from boat, motor, and trailer sales upon transfer of control of the boat, motor, or trailer to the customer, which is generally upon acceptance of the boat, motor, and trailer by the customer and the satisfaction of our performance obligations. The transaction price is determined with the customer at the time of sale. Customers may trade in a used boat to apply toward the purchase of a new or used boat. The trade-in is a type of noncash consideration measured at fair value, based on external and internal observable and unobservable market data and applied as payment to the contract price for the purchased boat. At the time of acceptance, the customer is able to direct the use of, and obtain substantially all of the benefits of the boat, motor, or trailer. We recognize commissions earned from a brokerage sale when the related brokerage transaction closes upon transfer of control of the boat, motor, or trailer to the customer, which is generally upon acceptance by the customer. We do not directly finance our customers boat, motor, or trailer purchases. In many cases, we assist with third-party financing for boat, motor, and trailer sales. We recognize commissions earned by us for placing notes with financial institutions in connection with customer boat financing when we recognize the related boat sales. Pursuant to negotiated agreements with financial institutions, we are charged back for a portion of these fees should the customer terminate or default on the related finance contract before it is outstanding for a stipulated minimum period of time. We base the chargeback allowance, which was not material to the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole as of September 30, 2022 and 2023, on our experience with repayments or defaults on the related finance contracts. We recognize variable consideration from commissions earned on extended warranty service contracts sold on behalf of third-party insurance companies at generally the later of customer acceptance of the service contract terms as evidenced by contract execution or recognition of the related boat sale. We also recognize marketing fees earned on insurance products sold on behalf of third-party insurance companies at the later of customer acceptance of the insurance product as evidenced by contract execution or when the related boat sale is recognized. We recognize revenue from parts and service operations (boat maintenance and repairs) over time as services are performed. Each boat maintenance and repair service is a single performance obligation that includes both the parts and labor associated with the service. Payment for boat maintenance and repairs is typically due upon the completion of the service, which is generally completed within a short period of time from contract inception. We satisfy our performance obligations, transfer control, and recognize revenue over time for parts and service operations because we are creating a contract asset with no alternative use and we have an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date. Contract assets primarily relate to our right to consideration for work in process not yet billed at the reporting date associated with maintenance and repair services. Contract assets, recorded in prepaid expenses and other current assets, totaled approximately $5.9 million and $5.3 million as of September 30, 2022 and September 30, 2023, respectively. We recognize lessor common area charges, utility sales, food and beverage sales and other ancillary goods and services. Performance obligations include performing common area maintenance and providing utilities, food and beverages, and other ancillary goods and services when goods are transferred or services are performed. Payment terms typically align with when the goods and services are provided. We recognize revenue from service operations and slip and storage rentals over time on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract as our performance obligations are met. We recognize revenue from the rentals of chartering power yachts over time on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract as our performance obligations are met. Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value. The cost of inventories purchased from our vendors consist of the amount paid to acquire the inventory, net of vendor consideration and purchase discounts, the cost of equipment added, reconditioning costs, inventory deposits, and transportation costs relating to acquiring inventory for sale. Trade-in used boats are initially recorded at fair value and adjusted for reconditioning and other costs. The cost of inventories that are manufactured by the Company consist of material, labor, and manufacturing overhead. Unallocated overhead and abnormal costs are expensed as incurred. New and used boats, motors, and trailers inventories are accounted for on a specific identification basis. Raw materials and parts, accessories, and other inventories are accounted for on an average cost basis. We utilize our historical experience, the aging of the inventories, and our consideration of current market trends as the basis for determining a lower of cost or net realizable value. We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a change in the future estimates or assumptions we use to calculate the lower of cost or net realizable value. If events occur and market conditions change, the net realizable value of our inventories could change. Acquisitions We account for acquisitions in accordance with FASB ASC 805, Business Combinations ( ASC 805 ). For business combinations, the excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair value of net assets acquired in a business combination is recorded as goodwill. We primarily estimate the fair value of property and equipment, the majority of which is marina property, using the replacement cost method based on assumptions of replacement cost for new and similar assets. For acquisitions with contingent consideration, the fair value of the Company's contingent consideration liabilities is based on the present value of the expected future 43 payments to be made to the sellers of the acquired entities in accordance with the provisions outlined in the respective purchase agreements. Growth rate assumptions were developed using data on recent historical net operating income growth and projections made during due diligence with assistance from a third-party specialist. The risk associated with the financial projections was evaluated using a Monte Carlo simulation analysis, pursuant to which the projections were discounted to present value using a discount rate that takes into consideration market-based rates of return, and then simulated to reflect the ability of the acquired entity to achieve the earnout targets. Such calculated earnout payments were further discounted at our estimated cost of debt, to account for counterparty risk. We note that changes in financial projections, market participant assumptions for revenue growth and/or profitability, or market risk factors, would result in a change in the fair value of recorded earnout obligations. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Results of Operations The following table sets forth certain financial data as a percentage of revenue for the periods indicated: Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2021 2022 2023 (Amounts in thousands) Revenue $ 2,063,257 100.0 % $ 2,308,098 100.0 % $ 2,394,706 100.0 % Cost of sales 1,403,824 68.0 % 1,502,344 65.1 % 1,559,377 65.1 % Gross profit 659,433 32.0 % 805,754 34.9 % 835,329 34.9 % Selling, general and administrative expenses 449,974 21.8 % 540,550 23.4 % 634,527 26.5 % Income from operations 209,459 10.2 % 265,204 11.5 % 200,802 8.4 % Interest expense 3,665 0.2 % 3,283 0.2 % 53,367 2.2 % Income before income taxes 205,794 10.0 % 261,921 11.3 % 147,435 6.2 % Income tax provision 50,815 2.5 % 63,932 2.7 % 37,957 1.6 % Net income 154,979 7.5 % 197,989 8.6 % 109,478 4.6 % Less: Net income attributable to non-controlling interests - 0.0 % - 0.0 % 196 0.0 % Net income attributable to MarineMax, Inc. $ 154,979 7.5 % $ 197,989 8.6 % $ 109,282 4.6 % Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2023, Compared with Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2022 Revenue . Revenue increased $86.6 million, or 3.8%, to approximately $2.395 billion for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2023 from $2.308 billion for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022. The increase is due to a net $125.1 million increase from acquisitions that are not eligible for inclusion in the comparable-store base, partially offset by a decrease in manufacturing revenue which is not included in comparable store sales, and by a $38.5 million, or 1.7%, decrease in comparable-store sales. The comparable-store decrease came primarily from decreases in new boat revenue due to softer demand, more seasonal sales trends, and macroeconomic uncertainty. Gross Profit . Gross profit increased $29.5 million, or 3.7%, to $835.3 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2023 from $805.8 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022. Gross profit as a percentage of revenue remained flat at 34.9% for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2023 and for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022, primarily as a result of the acquisition of IGY Marinas, a higher margin business. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $93.9 million, or 17.4%, to $634.5 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2023 from $540.6 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022. The increase in selling, general, and administrative expenses was driven by an increase in mix to our higher margin businesses, which typically carry a higher expense structure, and acquisitions. Interest Expense . Interest expense increased $50.1 million to $53.4 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2023, from $3.3 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022 as a result of rising interest rates, increased inventory, and increases in long term debt. Interest expense as a percentage of revenue increased to 2.2% for the twelve months ended September 30, 2023 from 0.2% from the twelve months ended September 30, 2022. Income Taxes . Income tax expense decreased $25.9 million, or 40.5%, to $38.0 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2023 from $63.9 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022. Our effective income tax rate increased to 25.7% for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2023, from 24.4% for fiscal year ended September 30, 2022. The increase in the effective income tax rate 44 was primarily a result of reduced taxable income, which increases the impact of permanent tax differences, as well as the acquisition of IGY Marinas foreign operations and increases in state tax rates. Quarterly Data and Seasonality Our business, as well as the entire recreational boating industry, is highly seasonal, with seasonality varying in different geographic markets. With the exception of Florida, we generally realize significantly lower sales and higher levels of inventories, and related short-term borrowings, in the quarterly periods ending December 31 and March 31. The onset of the public boat and recreation shows in January generally stimulates boat sales and typically allows us to reduce our inventory levels and related short-term borrowings throughout the remainder of the fiscal year. Our business could become substantially more seasonal if we acquire additional dealers that operate in colder regions of the United States, or other parts of the world, or close retail locations in warm climates. Our business is also subject to weather patterns, which may adversely affect our results of operations. For example, prolonged winter conditions, drought conditions (or merely reduced rainfall levels) or excessive rain, may limit access to area boating locations or render boating dangerous or inconvenient, thereby curtailing customer demand for our products. In addition, unseasonably cool weather and prolonged winter conditions may lead to a shorter selling season in certain locations. Hurricanes and other storms could result in disruptions of our operations or damage to our boat inventories and facilities, as has been the case when Florida and other markets were affected by hurricanes, such as Hurricanes Harvey and Irma in 2017 and Hurricane Ian in 2022. Although we believe our geographic diversity is likely to reduce the overall impact to us of adverse weather conditions in any one market area, these conditions will continue to represent potential, material adverse risks to us and our future financial performance. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our cash needs are primarily for working capital to support operations, including new and used boat and related parts inventories, off-season liquidity, and growth through acquisitions. Acquisitions remain an important strategy for us, and we plan to continue our growth through this strategy in appropriate circumstances. We cannot predict the length of prevailing economic or financial conditions. We regularly monitor the aging of our inventories and current market trends (including supply chain issues) to evaluate our current and future inventory needs. We also use this evaluation in conjunction with our review of our current and expected operating performance and expected business levels to determine the extent of our financing needs. These cash needs historically have been financed with cash generated from operations and borrowings under the Amended Credit Facility (described below). Our ability to utilize the Amended Credit Facility to fund operations depends upon the collateral levels and compliance with the covenants of the Amended Credit Facility. Any turmoil in the credit markets and weakness in the retail markets may interfere with our ability to remain in compliance with the covenants of the Amended Credit Facility and therefore affect our ability to utilize the Amended Credit Facility to fund operations. As of September 30, 2023, we were in compliance with all covenants under the Amended Credit Facility. We currently depend upon dividends and other payments from our businesses and the Amended Credit Facility to fund our current operations and meet our cash needs. As the majority owner of each of our businesses, we determine the amounts of such distributions subject to applicable law, and currently, no agreements exist that restrict this flow of funds from our businesses. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2023, cash used in operating activities was approximately $222.2 million. For the fiscal years ended September 30, 2022 and 2021, cash provided by operating activities was approximately $76.6 million, and $373.9 million, respectively. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2023, cash used in operating activities was primarily related to increases in inventory, increases in accounts receivable, and decreases in contract liabilities (customer deposits), partially offset by increases in accounts payable and accrued expenses and other liabilities, our net income adjusted for non-cash expenses and gains such as depreciation and amortization expense, deferred income tax provision, and stock-based compensation expense. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022, cash provided by operating activities was primarily related to increases in contract liabilities (customer deposits), accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities, and our net income adjusted for non-cash expenses and gains such as depreciation and amortization expense, deferred income tax provision, and stock-based compensation expense, partially offset by increases in inventory. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2021, cash provided by operating activities was primarily related to decreases in inventory, increases in contract liabilities (customer deposits), accrued expenses and other liabilities, and our net income adjusted for non-cash expenses and gains such as depreciation and amortization expense, deferred income tax provision, and stock-based compensation expense For the fiscal years ended September 30, 2023, 2022, and 2021, cash used in investing activities was approximately $576.4 million, $140.5 million, and $161.1 million, respectively. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2023, cash used in investing activities was primarily used for the acquisition of IGY Marinas, to purchase property and equipment associated with improving existing retail facilities, and to purchase investments, partially offset by proceeds from the sale of investments and property and equipment. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022, cash used in investing activities was primarily used for acquisitions, to purchase property and equipment associated with improving existing retail facilities, and to purchase investments, partially offset by proceeds from the sale of investments and property and equipment. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2021, cash used in investing activities was primarily 45 used for acquisitions, to purchase property and equipment associated with improving existing retail facilities, and to purchase investments, partially offset by proceeds from insurance settlements. For the fiscal years ended September 30, 2023 and 2022, cash provided by financing activities was approximately $770.4 million and $73.1 million, respectively. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2021, cash used in financing activities was approximately $145.8 million. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2023, cash provided by financing activities was primarily attributable to proceeds from long-term debt, increased short term borrowings, which solely consisted of the Floor Plan (as defined below), and net proceeds from issuance of common stock under incentive compensation and employee purchase plans, partially offset by payments on tax withholdings for equity awards, payments for long-term debt, and contingent acquisition consideration payments. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022, cash provided by financing activities was primarily attributable to increased short-term borrowings, which solely consisted of the Floor Plan, and net proceeds from issuance of common stock under incentive compensation and employee purchase plans, partially offset by purchase of treasury stock, payments on tax withholdings for equity awards, payments for long-term debt, payments for debt issuance costs, and contingent acquisition consideration payments. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2021, cash used in financing activities was primarily attributable to net payments for short-term borrowings, which solely consisted of the Floor Plan, purchase of treasury stock, payments on tax withholdings for equity awards, payments for long-term debt, and contingent acquisition consideration payments, partially offset by proceeds from long-term debt and net proceeds from issuance of common stock under incentive compensation and employee purchase plans. We are party to the Amended Credit Facility with Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company as Administrative Agent, Swingline Lender, and Issuing Bank, Wells Fargo Commercial Distribution Finance, LLC, as Floor Plan Agent, and the lenders party thereto. The Amended Credit Facility provides the Company a line of credit with asset based borrowing availability (the "Floor Plan") of up to $950 million and establishes a revolving credit facility in the maximum amount of $100 million (including a $20 million swingline facility and a $20 million letter of credit sublimit), a delayed draw term loan facility to finance the acquisition of IGY Marinas in the maximum amount of $400 million, and a $100 million delayed draw mortgage loan facility. The maturity of each of the facilities is August 2027. The interest rate is (a) for amounts outstanding under the Floor Plan, 3.45% above the one month secured term rate as administered by the CME Group Benchmark Administration Limited (CBA) ( SOFR ), (b) for amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility or the term loan facility, a range of 1.50% to 2.0%, depending on the total net leverage ratio, above the one month, three month, or six month term SOFR rate, and (c) for amounts outstanding under the mortgage loan facility, 2.20% above the one month, three month, or six month term SOFR rate. The alternate base rate with a margin is available for amounts outstanding under the revolving credit, term, and mortgage loan facilities and the Euro Interbank Offered Rate plus a margin is available for borrowings in Euro or other currencies other than dollars under the revolving credit facility. Advances under the Floor Plan are initiated by the acquisition of eligible new and used inventory or are re-advanced against eligible new and used inventory that have been partially paid-off. Advances on new inventory will generally mature 1,080 days from the original invoice date. Advances on used inventory will mature 361 days from the date we acquire the used inventory. Each advance is subject to a curtailment schedule, which requires that we pay down the balance of each advance on a periodic basis starting six months after receiving such advance. The curtailment schedule varies based on the type and value of the inventory. The collateral for the Amended Credit Agreement is primarily the Company inventory that is financed through the Amended Credit Agreement and related accounts receivable. None of our real estate has been pledged for collateral for the Amended Credit Agreement As of September 30, 2023, our indebtedness associated with our short-term borrowings, which solely consisted of the Floor Plan, and our long-term debt totaled approximately $538.7 million and $391.1 million, respectively. As of September 30, 2023, short-term borrowings, which solely consisted of the Floor Plan, and long-term debt recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets included unamortized debt issuance costs of approximately $1.6 million and $1.9 million, respectively. Refer to Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for disclosure of borrowing availability, interest rates, and terms of our short-term borrowings (Floor Plan) and long-term debt. Except as specified in this Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in the attached consolidated financial statements, we have no material commitments for capital for the next 12 months. Based on the information currently available to us (including the impacts on consumer demand of the current supply chain and inventory challenges, inflation, higher interest rates, and potential recession, all of which are uncertain), we believe that the cash generated from sales and our existing capital resources will be adequate to meet our liquidity and capital requirements for at least the next 12 months, except in the case of possible significant acquisitions. 46 Commitments and Commercial Commitments The following table sets forth a summary of our material contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of September 30, 2023: Payments Due by Period Ending September 30, Total Less Than 1 Year (2024) 1-3 Years (2025 and 2026) 3-5 Years (2027 and 2028) More Than 5 Years (2029 and thereafter) (Amounts in thousands) Short-term borrowings (Floor Plan) (1) $ 538,665 $ 538,665 $ $ $ Long-term debt (2) $ 424,899 33,767 67,534 312,173 11,425 Other liabilities (3) $ 95,113 5,959 83,454 5,700 Operating leases (4) $ 335,324 16,182 30,600 27,284 261,258 Total $ 1,394,001 $ 594,573 $ 181,588 $ 345,157 $ 272,683 (1) Estimates of future interest payments for short-term borrowings have been excluded in the tabular presentation. Amounts due are contingent upon the outstanding balances and the variable interest rates. Refer to Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for disclosure of borrowing availability, interest rates, and terms of our short-term borrowings. (2) The amounts included in long-term debt refers to future cash principal payments. Refer to Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for disclosure of borrowing availability, interest rates, and terms of our long-term debt. (3) The amounts included in other liabilities consist primarily of our estimated liability for claims on certain workers compensation insurance policies and estimated future contingent consideration payments. (4) Amounts for operating lease commitments do not include certain operating expenses such as maintenance, insurance, and real estate taxes. These amounts are not a material component of operating expenses. 
