CIK: 1136893
Company Name: FIDELITY NATIONAL INFORMATION SERVICES INC 
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2023-02-27
Accession Number: 0001136893-23-000028


Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following section discusses management's view of the financial condition and results of operations of FIS and its consolidated subsidiaries as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, and for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, unless otherwise noted. This section should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements. See "Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information" and " Risk Factors " in Item 1A of this Annual Report for a discussion of the uncertainties, risks and assumptions associated with these forward-looking statements that could cause future results to differ materially from those reflected in this section. Business Trends and Conditions Our revenue is primarily derived from a combination of technology and processing solutions, transaction fees, professional services and software license fees. While we are a global company and do business around the world, the majority of our revenue is generated by clients in the U.S. The majority of our international revenue is generated by clients in the U.K., Germany, Australia, Brazil and Canada. In addition, the majority of our revenue has historically been recurring and has been provided under multi-year Banking and Capital Markets contracts that contribute relative stability to our revenue stream. These solutions, in general, are considered critical to our clients' operations. Although Merchant has a lesser percentage of multi-year contracts, substantially all of our Merchant revenue is recurring, derived from transaction processing fees that fluctuate with the number or value of transactions processed, among other variable measures associated with consumer activity. Professional services revenue is typically non-recurring, though recognition often occurs over time rather than at a point in time. Sales of software licenses are typically non-recurring with point-in-time recognition and are less predictable. The U.S. and Europe, the two largest geographic areas for our businesses, are experiencing slower economic growth and higher rates of inflation than in recent years. In 2022, we began to experience lengthening sales cycles in Banking and Capital Markets, particularly across large transactions with a total contract value in excess of $50 million. We also experienced increased wages and benefits costs compared to 2021, which management believes is in part due to inflation and in part due to competitive job markets for the skilled employees who support our businesses. We experienced increases in non-labor-related costs compared to 2021 as well. Given the nature of our varied businesses, the magnitude of future effects of slower economic growth, including elongated sales cycles, and of inflation are difficult to predict, although they have had and are expected to continue to have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In 2022, the strengthening of the U.S. dollar had, and, to the degree it continues to strengthen, is expected to continue to have, a negative impact on our revenue and earnings, and rising interest rates had, and are expected to continue to have, a negative impact on our earnings. In 2022, we also recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $17.6 billion related to the Merchant Solutions reporting unit. The impairment reflects our intermediate-term expectation of lower growth in the segment, particularly related to the SMB sub-segment. See " Goodwill Impairment " in our Critical Accounting Policies and Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements for further details. The Merchant segment posted revenue growth of 6% in 2022 compared to the prior year, net of (3%) growth impact of unfavorable foreign currency movements, with a deceleration over the second half of the year, particularly in the fourth quarter. The slowing growth primarily reflects a decline in SMB sub-segment revenues, attributable to slower economic growth and competitive pressures. Additionally, our Enterprise sub-segment was negatively impacted by a decline in U.K.- derived revenue, principally reflecting softer economic conditions in the region. We anticipate these trends to continue into 2023. In addition, the war in Ukraine has negatively affected, and as long as it continues will continue to negatively affect, our Merchant business. As a result of the factors noted above, for the Company as a whole, we expect 2023 revenue growth will be substantially slower than 2022, and we expect to experience margin compression in 2023 as compared to 2022. Over the longer term, we 31 Table of Contents expect improvements in revenue growth and margins in response to improving economic conditions and planned management actions, including our Future Forward program discussed below. On February 13, 2023, we announced plans to spin off our Merchant Solutions business. The planned separation is intended to create two independent, publicly traded companies with enhanced strategic and operational focus and to enable more tailored capital allocation and investment decisions to unlock growth. While we believe the spin-off will be beneficial to both FIS and, following the spin, to the Merchant business, and therefore indirectly to our shareholders, it will result in some one-time costs and revenue and expense dis-synergies. The latter are expected to include higher interest expense as a result of replacing lower coupon FIS debt with higher coupon Merchant debt, in part due to the current interest rate environment. FIS and SpinCo are expected to maintain a commercial relationship to ensure continuity for clients. We expect the spin-off to be completed within the next 12 months. The proposed spin-off is subject to customary conditions, including final approval by our Board of Directors, receipt of a tax opinion and a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, the filing and effectiveness of a Form 10 registration statement with the SEC and obtaining of all required regulatory approvals. No assurance can be given that a spin-off will in fact occur, or that it will achieve the anticipated benefits, on our desired timetable or at all. See "Risk Factors Risks Related to the Planned Spin-Off of our Merchant Business" in Item 1A of this Annual Report. In November 2022, we launched an enterprise-wide efficiency program, Future Forward, with a focus on streamlining operations, accelerating time to market of new solutions and improving profitability and cash flow. We are targeting cash savings from Future Forward of $1.25 billion by year-end 2024, consisting of $600 million of operating expense savings (run rate as of end of 2024), $300 million of capital expense savings (run rate as of end of 2024) and $350 million of cumulative savings by year-end 2024 from the reduction or elimination of acquisition, integration and transformation-related expenses, in each case prior to the effects of the proposed spin-off of the Merchant Solutions business, which we believe will reduce the available savings. We continue to assist financial institutions in migrating to outsourced integrated technology solutions to improve their profitability and address increasing and ongoing regulatory requirements. As a provider of outsourced solutions, we benefit from multi-year recurring revenue streams, which help moderate the effects of broader year-to-year economic and market changes that otherwise might have a larger impact on our results of operations. We believe our integrated solutions and outsourced services are well-positioned to address this outsourcing trend across the markets we serve. Following the successful modernization of our IT infrastructure and consolidation of our data centers, we are now accelerating the modernization of our strategic applications and sunsetting of our redundant platforms. Our multi-year platform modernization initiative is designed to create a componentized, cloud-native set of capabilities that can be consumed by clients as end-to-end business applications or as individual components. Although our platform modernization has resulted and will continue to result in additional near-term costs, we expect it will continue to result in improvements in our operational efficiencies over time. We continue to invest in modernization, innovation and integrated solutions to meet the demands of the markets we serve and compete with global banks, financial and other technology providers, and emerging technology innovators. We invest both organically and through investment opportunities in companies building complementary technologies in the financial services space. Our internal efforts in research and development activities have related primarily to the modernization of our proprietar y core systems in each of our segments, design and development of next-generation digital and innovative solutions and development of processing systems and related software applications and risk management platforms. We expect to continue our practice of investing an appropriate level of resources to maintain, enhance and extend the functionality of our proprietary systems and existing software applications, to develop new and innovative software applications and systems to address emerging technology trends in response to the needs of our clients and to enhance the capabilities of our outsourcing infrastructure. Consumer preference continues to shift from traditional branch banking services to digital banking solutions, and our clients seek to provide a single integrated banking experience through their branch, mobile, internet and voice banking channels. We have been providing our large regional banking customers in the U.S. with Digital One, an integrated digital banking platfor m, and are now adding functionality and offering Digital One to our community bank clients to provide a consistent, omnichannel experience for consumers of banking services across self-service channels like mobile banking and online banking, as well as supporting channels for bank staff operating in bank branches and contact centers. The uniform customer experience extends to support a broad range of financial services including opening new accounts, servicing of existing accounts, money movement, and personal financial management, as well as other consumer, small business and commercial banking capabilities. Digital One is integrated into several of the core banking platforms offered by FIS and is also offered to customers of non-FIS core banking systems. 32 Table of Contents Consolidation within the banking industry has occurred and may continue, primarily in the form of merger and acquisition activity among financial institutions, which we believe would broadly be detrimental to the profitability of the financial technology industry. However, consolidation resulting from specific merger and acquisition transactions may be beneficial to our business. When consolidations of financial institutions occur, merger partners often operate systems obtained from competing service providers. The newly formed entity generally makes a determination to migrate its core and payments systems to a single platform. When a financial institution processing client is involved in a consolidation, we may benefit by their expanding the use of our solutions if such solutions are chosen to survive the consolidation and to support the newly combined entity. Conversely, we may lose revenue if we are providing solutions to both entities, or if a client of ours is involved in a consolidation and our solutions are not chosen to support the newly combined entity. It is also possible that larger financial institutions resulting from consolidation may have greater leverage in negotiating terms or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the solutions that we currently provide or could provide. We seek to mitigate the risks of consolidations by offering other competitive solutions to take advantage of specific opportunities at the surviving company. We continue to see demand in the payments market for innovative solutions that will deliver faster, more convenient payment options in mobile channels, internet applications, in-store cards, and digital currencies. The payment processing industry is adopting new technologies, developing new solutions, evolving new business models, and being affected by new market entrants and by an evolving regulatory environment. As merchants and financial institutions respond to these changes by seeking solutions to help them enhance their own offerings to consumers, including the ability to accept card-not-present ("CNP") payments in eCommerce and mobile environments as well as contactless cards and mobile wallets at the point of sale, FIS believes that payment processors will seek to develop additional capabilities in order to serve clients' evolving needs. To facilitate this expansion, we believe that payment processors will need to enhance their technology platforms so they can deliver these capabilities and differentiate their offerings from other providers. We believe that these market changes present both an opportunity and a risk for us, and we cannot predict which emerging technologies or solutions will be successful. However, FIS believes that payment processors, like FIS, that have scalable, integrated business models, provide solutions across the payment processing value chain and utilize broad distribution capabilities will be best-positioned to enable emerging alternative electronic payment technologies in the long term. Further, FIS believes that its depth of capabilities and breadth of distribution will enhance its position as emerging payment technologies are adopted by merchants and other businesses. FIS' ability to partner with non-financial institution enterprises, such as mobile payment providers and internet, retail and social media companies, continues to create attractive growth opportunities as these new entrants seek to become more active participants in the development of alternative electronic payment technologies and to facilitate the convergence of retail, online, mobile and social commerce applications. Globally, attacks on information technology systems, such as those operated by FIS, continue to grow in frequency, complexity and sophistication. This is a trend we expect to continue. These circumstances present both a threat and an opportunity for FIS. We maintain significant focus on and investment in information security that is designed to mitigate threats to our systems and solutions. Through the expertise we have gained with this ongoing focus and investment, we have developed and offer fraud, security, risk management and compliance solutions to target the growth opportunity in the financial services industry. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The accounting policies and estimates described below are those we consider critical in preparing our consolidated financial statements. These policies require management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures with respect to contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual amounts could differ from those estimates. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for a more detailed description of the significant accounting policies that have been followed in preparing our consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition The most critical judgments required in applying ASC 606, Revenue Recognition from Customers, and our revenue recognition policy relate to the determination of distinct performance obligations and the evaluation of the standalone selling price for each performance obligation. The determination as to whether individual promised solutions or services can be considered distinct or should instead be combined with other promised solutions or services in a contract may require judgment. We assess the solutions and services 33 Table of Contents promised in our contracts with customers and identify a performance obligation for each promise to transfer to the customer a solution or service (or bundle of solutions or services) that is distinct - i.e., if a solution or service is separately identifiable from other items in the bundled package and if a customer can benefit from it on its own or with other resources that are readily available to the customer. The transaction price (including any discounts or rebates) is allocated among distinct solutions and solutions in a contract that includes multiple performance obligations based on their relative standalone selling prices. Judgment may be required to determine standalone selling prices for each performance obligation and whether it depicts the amount we expect to receive in exchange for the related good or service. For performance obligations that are not sold separately, we estimate the standalone selling prices considering all reasonably available information and maximizing observable inputs using various approaches including historical pricing, cost plus margin, adjusted market and residual approaches. The cost-plus-margin approach, in particular, requires judgment, including the estimation of the costs required to complete the performance obligation. These estimates are based primarily on the scope and complexity of the obligation, platform migration timelines, expected account or transaction volumes, and internal and external labor rates. We have not made significant changes in our cost estimates under this approach in the reporting period. For significant contracts for which the cost-plus-margin approach was used to estimate the standalone selling price, a 10% change in our cost assumptions would not have a significant impact on the amount reported during the period. Due to the large number, broad nature and average size of our individual customer contracts, the impact of judgments and assumptions that we apply in recognizing revenue for any single contract is not likely to have a material effect on our consolidated operations or financial position. However, the accounting policies that we apply across similar contracts, products or classes of clients could significantly influence the timing and amount of revenue recognized in our historical and future results of operations or financial position. Purchase Accounting We allocate the purchase price of acquired businesses to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the transaction at their estimated fair values. The estimates used to determine the fair value of long-lived assets, such as intangible assets and software, are complex and require a significant amount of management judgment. We typically engage third-party valuation specialists to assist us in making fair value determinations. The third-party valuation specialists generally use discounted cash flow models, which require internally-developed assumptions, to determine the acquisition fair value of customer relationship intangible assets and developed technology software assets. Assumptions for customer relationship asset valuations typically include forecasted revenue attributable to existing customer contracts and relationships, estimated annual attrition, forecasted EBITDA margin, and estimated weighted average cost of capital and discount rates. Assumptions for software asset valuations typically include forecasted revenue attributable to the software assets, obsolescence rates, estimated royalty rates and estimated weighted average cost of capital and discount rates. The forecasted revenue and EBITDA margins used in the discounted cash flow models are critical estimates in determining the fair value of customer relationships and developed technology software assets as these estimates are influenced by many factors including historical financial information and management expectation for future operating results as a combined company. While we use our best estimates and assumptions to determine the fair values of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed, our estimates are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. As a result, during the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, we record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to our consolidated statements of earnings. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for discussion of the Payrix acquisition in 2021. The Payrix acquisition is not considered material to warrant additional disclosure regarding estimation uncertainty. Goodwill Impairment The Company assesses goodwill for impairment by reporting unit on an annual basis during the fourth quarter or more frequently if circumstances indicate potential impairment. Our reporting units are the same as our primary operating segments, with additional reporting units for certain non-strategic businesses within the Corporate and Other segment. Goodwill impairment assessments require a significant amount of management judgment, and a meaningful change in one or more of the underlying forecasts, estimates, or assumptions used in testing goodwill for impairment could result in a material impact on the Company's results of operations and financial position. Pursuant to our annual goodwill impairment test performed as of October 1, 2022, and supplemented by a further impairment test performed as of December 31, 2022, we recorded a total goodwill impairment charge of $17.6 billion in the fourth quarter of 2022 for the Merchant reporting unit. In the fourth quarter 34 Table of Contents of 2020, we recorded $94 million in goodwill impairment related to certain non-strategic businesses in the Corporate and Other segment. For the remaining reporting units for all periods presented, goodwill was not impaired. Our annual impairment test may first consider qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that a reporting unit's carrying amount exceeds its fair value. Qualitative factors include macroeconomic conditions, industry and market conditions, cost factors, overall financial performance and events affecting the reporting unit or Company as a whole, including a sustained decrease in stock price. As a result of the qualitative assessment, if we conclude that it is more likely than not that the reporting unit's fair value is less than its carrying amount as a result of the qualitative assessment, or we elect to bypass the qualitative assessment for a reporting unit, then we must perform a quantitative assessment for that reporting unit. When a quantitative assessment is triggered or elected, we typically engage third-party valuation specialists to assist us in determining the fair value of the reporting unit based on the weighted average of two valuation techniques: an income approach (also known as the discounted cash flow method) and a market approach. The income approach calculates a value based upon the present value of estimated future cash flows, while the market approach uses earnings multiples of similarly situated guideline public companies. The income approach involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions regarding forecasted revenue, growth rates, operating margins, capital expenditures, and other factors used to calculate estimated future cash flows. In addition, risk-adjusted discount rates and future economic and market conditions and other assumptions are applied. The market approach involves the selection of guideline public companies and earnings multiples considering factors such as markets of operation, solutions offered, and risk profiles. The income approach used to assess goodwill for impairment is a critical estimate because the forecasted revenue growth rate and margin assumptions (including long-term growth assumptions) underlying the estimated future cash flows are subject to management judgment based upon the best available market information, internal forecasts and operating plans. A deterioration in these assumptions could adversely impact our results. The income approach is also particularly sensitive to the risk-adjusted discount rate selected. For our Banking and Capital Markets reporting units, for which previous third-party valuations have historically indicated substantial excess of fair value over carrying amounts, our 2020 qualitative annual assessment concluded that it remained more likely than not that the fair value of each of the reporting units continued to exceed their respective carrying amounts. For 2021, we again performed a qualitative annual assessment of these reporting units and concluded that it remained more likely than not that the fair values of these reporting units continued to exceed their respective carrying amounts. For 2022, we performed a quantitative annual assessment which again concluded that the fair values of these reporting units substantially exceeded their respective carrying amounts. Given the substantial excess of fair value over carrying amounts, we believe the likelihood of obtaining materially different results based on a change of assumptions to be low. For Merchant, we began our 2020 annual assessment with a quantitative assessment due to the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our Merchant business and its primary operations being recently acquired as part of the Worldpay acquisition. As a result of the assessment, the fair value of the reporting unit was estimated to be in excess of its carrying amount by approximately 4%. The fair value was determined with the assistance of third-party valuation specialists, using an equal weighting of the income and market approaches based on an evaluation of the availability and relevance of guideline public companies having similar risks, participating in similar markets, and providing similar solutions for their customers. Under the income approach for the Merchant reporting unit, management estimated the fair value by forecasting future cash flows using internal forecasts, which were developed considering historical operating performance, expected economic conditions and industry and market trends, including the impact of the COVID-19 global pandemic and expected impact of planned business initiatives. At the end of the forecast period, we used a 2% long-term growth rate to determine the terminal value based on an evaluation of the minimum expected terminal growth rate of the Merchant reporting unit, as well as broader economic considerations such as inflation and foreign exchange rates. In computing the present value of estimated future cash flows, we used a risk-adjusted discount rate of 7% based on an assessment of the weighted average cost of capital for the Merchant reporting unit and relevant guideline public companies. We believe the discount rate used in our 2020 quantitative test was commensurate with the risks and uncertainties inherent in the Merchant business and in our internally developed forecasts, though the rate is subject to change in future periods based on changes in the U.S. Treasury rate, inflation, and other factors. As a result of this quantitative assessment, we determined that goodwill was not impaired as of December 31, 2020. For 2021, we began our annual assessment of the Merchant reporting unit with a qualitative assessment and concluded that it remained more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit continued to exceed its carrying amount. In addition to the above-noted factors that are considered when performing a qualitative assessment, we considered our actual operating results and updated internal forecasts as compared to prior internal forecasts and other assumptions used in the 2020 quantitative annual assessment and estimated that the fair value of the reporting unit more likely than not exceeded its carrying amount by a similar percentage as determined by the prior year quantitative assessment. Thus, we determined that goodwill was not impaired as of December 31, 2021. 35 Table of Contents The Merchant reporting unit remained at risk for future goodwill impairment as it was reasonably possible that future developments could have a material impact on one or more of the estimates and assumptions used to evaluate goodwill impairment and could result in future goodwill impairment; accordingly, we continued to evaluate through the first three quarters of 2022 whether events and circumstances at each interim reporting date indicated a potential goodwill impairment, concluding based on our assessments that it remained more likely than not that the fair value of the Merchant reporting unit continued to exceed its carrying amount, which carrying amount had declined by approximately $3.7 billion or 9% since the 2020 quantitative assessment due to changes in foreign currency and amortization of purchased intangibles. We elected to begin our 2022 annual Merchant reporting unit assessment with a quantitative assessment. We began this assessment by considering the projected impact of worsening macroeconomic conditions, including rising interest rates, inflation, and slowing growth in the U.S. and Europe, as well as a sustained decline in our market capitalization and the effects of changing market dynamics. Our assessment was based on a 50/50 weighting of the income approach and market approach and incorporated information that was known as of October 1, 2022. This analysis indicated an impairment related to our Merchant reporting unit. As a result of continued deterioration in the macroeconomic outlook, a further decline in our market capitalization and slowing growth in our Merchant business during the fourth quarter of 2022, we reperformed our quantitative goodwill impairment analysis as of December 31, 2022. Our updated analysis incorporated updated internal forecasts of future cash flows, which considered fourth quarter operating performance, expected impact of planned business initiatives, revised expectations of economic conditions, as well as updated market capitalization. Our assessment was again based upon 50/50 weighting of the income approach and market approach, and the fair values estimated during our quantitative assessments during the fourth quarter were determined with the assistance of third-party valuation specialists. As of December 31, 2022, the fair value of the Merchant reporting unit was estimated to be less than its carrying value, and we recorded a total goodwill impairment charge of $17.6 billion in the fourth quarter of 2022. As a result, the Merchant reporting unit carrying value as of December 31, 2022, is equal to its fair value, and the reporting unit is at a heightened risk of future impairment if certain assumptions and estimates were to change. The Company cannot predict the occurrence of certain events or changes in circumstances that might adversely affect the carrying value of goodwill. We c ontinue to monitor macroeconomic deterioration, including continued rise in interest rates and inflation or a prolonged economic downturn or recession in the U.S. or Europe, as well as further reductions in our market capitalization or other factors, including those listed in "Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information" and "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of this Annual Report. These could have a material impact on one or more of the estimates and assumptions used to evaluate goodwill impairment and could result in further goodwill impairment in the future. In our 2022 valuations, we used a 2% long-term growth rate at the end of the forecast period to determine the terminal value and a 9% risk-adjusted discount rate to compute the present value of the estimated future cash flows. We believe the discount rate used was commensurate with the risks and uncertainties inherent in the Merchant business and in our internally developed forecasts, though the rate is subject to change in future periods based on changes in the U.S. Treasury rate, inflation, and other factors. Holding all other assumptions in the 2022 fair value measurement constant, changes in the assumptions below would reduce the fair value of the Merchant reporting unit and result in impairment charges of approximately (in millions) : 25 basis point reduction in revenue growth rate during each discrete forecast period $ 237 25 basis point reduction in margin percentage across all future periods $ 77 25 basis point increase in the discount rate $ 416 Related-Party Transactions We are a party to certain historical related-party agreements as discussed in Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements. 36 Table of Contents Consolidated Results of Operations This section generally discusses fiscal year 2022 compared to 2021. Discussions of fiscal year 2021 compared to 2020 not included herein can be found in Part II, "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations " of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year 2021, filed with the SEC on February 23, 2022. Year ended December 31, 2022 2021 $ Change % Change (In millions) Revenue $ 14,528 $ 13,877 $ 651 5 % Cost of revenue (8,820) (8,682) (138) 2 Gross profit 5,708 5,195 513 10 Gross profit margin 39 % 37 % Selling, general and administrative expenses (4,118) (3,938) (180) 5 Asset impairments (17,709) (202) (17,507) NM Operating income (loss) (16,119) 1,055 (17,174) NM Operating margin NM 8 % Revenue Revenue increased primarily due to the ramp-up of new client wins in Banking, increased Merchant volumes and strong new sales in Capital Markets driving recurring revenue growth. Revenue was negatively impacted by unfavorable foreign currency movements, primarily related to a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the British Pound Sterling and Euro. See "Segment Results of Operations" below for more detailed explanation. Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit and Gross Profit Margin Cost of revenue increased due to the revenue variances noted above and cost inflation, partially offset by lower intangible asset amortization resulting primarily from foreign currency movements. Gross profit increased primarily due to revenue variances noted above. Gross profit margin increased primarily due to revenue growth in the Capital Markets segment and lower intangible asset amortization resulting primarily from foreign currency movements, partially offset by cost inflation. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased primarily due to higher compensation and acquisition-related expenses. The 2021 period included accelerated stock compensation expense recorded associated with the establishment of the Qualified Retirement Equity Program that modified our existing stock compensation plans as described in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. Asset Impairments During 2022, the Company recorded a $17.6 billion impairment of goodwill related to the Merchant Solutions segment resulting from a decline in the estimated fair value of the reporting unit based on slowing growth projections for the business driven by worsening macroeconomic conditions, including rising interest rates, inflation, and slowing growth in the U.S. and Europe, as well as a sustained decline in our market capitalization and the effects of changing market dynamics affecting our SMB portfolio, which is migrating from card-present offerings to embedded payments. For more details, see "Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Goodwill Impairments." For the year ended December 31, 2022, the Company also recorded $121 million of impairments related to real estate, a non-strategic business and certain software assets. During 2021, the Company recorded $202 million of asset impairments for certain software and deferred contract cost assets driven by the Company's platform modernization. Operating Income and Operating Margin The annual change in operating income resulted from the revenue and cost variances noted above. The operating margin during 2022 included higher asset impairments partially offset by lower intangible asset amortization compared to the prior-year period. 37 Table of Contents Total Other Income (Expense), Net Year ended December 31, 2022 2021 $ Change % Change Other income (expense): (In millions) Interest expense, net $ (275) $ (214) $ (61) 29 % Other income (expense), net 63 (52) 115 NM Total other income (expense), net $ (212) $ (266) 54 (20) The increase in interest expense, net is primarily due to increased interest expense on senior notes refinanced in 2022 and our variable rate instruments. Other income (expense), net includes net (losses) gains of $(26) million and $218 million for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, on equity security investments without readily determinable fair values. The net loss recorded during 2022 included a $78 million impairment loss. Other income (expense) also includes the impact of changes in fair value of certain preferred stock assets and related liabilities owed to former legacy Worldpay owners, representing a net gain of $64 million and $53 million for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. For 2021, Other income (expense), net includes a gain on the sale of our equity ownership interest in Cardinal Holdings of approximately $225 million (see Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements) and a loss on extinguishment of debt of approximately $528 million relating to tender premiums, make-whole amounts, and fees; the write-off of unamortized bond discounts and debt issuance costs; and losses on related derivative instruments. The foregoing loss resulted from the debt refinancing activity we undertook in the first quarter of 2021 (see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements), which substantially reduced our ongoing interest expense. Other income (expense), net also includes fair value adjustments on certain other non-operating assets and liabilities and foreign currency transaction remeasurement gains. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes Year ended December 31, 2022 2021 $ Change % Change (In millions) Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ 377 $ 371 $ 6 NM Effective tax rate (2) % 47 % The effective tax rate for 2022 includes the impact of the entire tax effect of the goodwill impairment charge included in pre-tax earnings due to the book basis in excess of tax basis of the goodwill impaired in Merchant Solutions. The effective tax rate for 2021 includes the one-time net remeasurement of certain deferred tax liabilities due to the increase in the U.K. corporate statutory tax rate from 19% to 25% effective April 1, 2023, enacted on June 10, 2021. Segment Results of Operations This section generally discusses fiscal year 2022 compared to 2021. Discussions of fiscal year 2021 compared to 2020 not included herein can be found in Part II, "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations " of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year 2021, filed with the SEC on February 23, 2022. FIS reports its financial performance based on the following segments: Banking Solutions, Merchant Solutions, Capital Market Solutions, and Corporate and Other. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net earnings (loss) before net interest expense, net other income (expense), income tax provision (benefit), equity method investment earnings (loss), depreciation and amortization, and excludes certain costs and other transactions that management deems non-operational in nature or that otherwise improve the comparability of operating results across reporting periods by their exclusion. This measure is reported to the chief operating decision maker for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to the segments and assessing their performance. For this reason, Adjusted EBITDA, as it relates to our segments, is presented in conformity with FASB ASC Topic 280, Segment Reporting . The items affecting the segment profit measure generally include purchase price amortization of acquired intangible assets as well as acquisition, integration and certain other costs and asset impairments. These costs and adjustments are recorded in the Corporate and Other segment for the periods discussed below. Adjusted EBITDA for the respective segments excludes the 38 Table of Contents foregoing costs and adjustments. Financial information, including details of Adjusted EBITDA, for each of our segments is set forth in Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements. Banking Solutions Years ended December 31, $ Change % Change 2022 vs 2022 vs 2022 2021 2021 2021 (In millions) Revenue $ 6,706 $ 6,396 $ 310 5 % Adjusted EBITDA $ 2,854 $ 2,874 (20) (1) Adjusted EBITDA margin 42.6 % 44.9 % Adjusted EBITDA margin basis points change (230) Revenue increased 5%, overcoming a (2%) growth headwind associated with pandemic-related revenue. Recurring revenue contributed 4% to growth, primarily due to the ramp-up of several large contracts. Professional services revenue contributed 1% to growth, and non-recurring revenue contributed 1% to growth. Revenue was negatively impacted by foreign currency movements, which contributed (1%) to growth primarily related to a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the Euro and the British Pound Sterling. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin decreased as the revenue impacts noted above were offset by lower-margin revenue mix and cost inflation. Merchant Solutions Years ended December 31, $ Change % Change 2022 vs 2022 vs 2022 2021 2021 2021 (In millions) Revenue $ 4,773 $ 4,496 $ 277 6 % Adjusted EBITDA $ 2,258 $ 2,262 (4) Adjusted EBITDA margin 47.3 % 50.3 % Adjusted EBITDA margin basis points change (300) Revenue increased primarily due to the ongoing global economic recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic. Global eCommerce volumes, including those related to our Payrix acquisition, contributed 6% to growth, Enterprise volumes contributed 2% to growth and SMB volumes contributed 1% to growth. Revenue was negatively impacted by unfavorable foreign currency movements, which contributed (3%) to growth primarily related to a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the British Pound Sterling. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin decreased as the revenue impacts noted above were offset by accelerated investment in e-commerce and Payrix sales channels to capitalize on developing secular growth trends, lower-margin revenue mix and cost inflation. On February 13, 2023, we announced our plans to spin off the Merchant business, with the intention to create a new, publicly traded company. We expect the spin-off to be completed within the next 12 months. The proposed spin-off is subject to customary conditions, including final approval by our Board of Directors, receipt of a tax opinion and a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, the filing and effectiveness of a Form 10 registration statement with the SEC and obtaining of all required regulatory approvals. No assurance can be given that a spin-off will in fact occur on our desired timetable or at all. See "Risk Factors Risks Related to the Planned Spin-Off of our Merchant Business" in Item 1A of this Annual Report and "Business Trends and Conditions" in Item 7. 39 Table of Contents Capital Market Solutions Years ended December 31, $ Change % Change 2022 vs 2022 vs 2022 2021 2021 2021 (In millions) Revenue $ 2,763 $ 2,624 $ 139 5 % Adjusted EBITDA $ 1,375 $ 1,271 104 8 Adjusted EBITDA margin 49.8 % 48.4 % Adjusted EBITDA margin basis points change 140 Revenue increased primarily due to recurring revenue which contributed 7% to growth from strong new sales momentum. Revenue was also negatively impacted by unfavorable foreign currency movements, which contributed (2%) to growth primarily related to a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the British Pound Sterling. Adjusted EBITDA increased primarily due to the revenue impacts noted above. Adjusted EBITDA margin increased primarily due to continued expense management and operating leverage. Corporate and Other Years ended December 31, $ Change % Change 2022 vs 2022 vs 2022 2021 2021 2021 (In millions) Revenue $ 286 $ 361 $ (75) (21) % Adjusted EBITDA $ (292) $ (290) (2) 1 The Corporate and Other segment results consist of selling, general and administrative expenses and depreciation and intangible asset amortization not otherwise allocated to the reportable segments. Corporate and Other also includes operations from certain non-strategic businesses. Revenue decreased primarily due to divestitures of non-strategic businesses in 2022 as well as client attrition in our non-strategic businesses. Adjusted EBITDA decreased as a result of the revenue impacts noted above, and higher corporate costs were more than offset by foreign currency movements impacting corporate and infrastructure expenses related to a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the British Pound Sterling and Indian Rupee. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Requirements Our ongoing cash requirements include operating expenses, income taxes, tax receivable obligations, mandatory debt service payments, capital expenditures, stockholder dividends, regulatory requirements, working capital and timing differences in settlement-related assets and liabilities and may include discretionary debt repayments, share repurchases and business acquisitions. Our principal sources of funds are cash generated by operations and borrowings, including the capacity under our Revolving Credit Facility, the U.S. commercial paper program and the Euro-commercial paper program discussed in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2022, the Company had $3,653 million of available liquidity, including $2,188 million of cash and cash equivalents and $1,465 million of capacity available under its Revolving Credit Facility. Approximately $1,491 million of cash and cash equivalents is held by our foreign entities, including amounts related to regulatory requirements. The majority of our domestic cash and cash equivalents relates to settlement payables and net deposits-in-transit, which are typically settled within a few business days. Debt outstanding totaled $20.1 billion, with an effective weighted average interest rate of 2.6%. We believe that our current level of cash and cash equivalents plus cash flows from operations will be sufficient to fund our operating cash requirements, capital expenditures and mandatory debt service payments for the next 12 months and the foreseeable future. 40 Table of Contents In January 2023, the Board of Directors approved a quarterly dividend of $0.52 per share beginning with the first quarter of 2023. A regular quarterly dividend of $0.52 per common share is payable on March 24, 2023, to shareholders of record as of the close of business on March 10, 2023. We currently expect to continue to pay quarterly dividends at a target payout ratio consistent with our previously announced capital allocation strategy. However, the amount, declaration and payment of future dividends is at the discretion of the Board of Directors and depends on, among other things, our investment opportunities (including potential mergers and acquisitions), results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, future prospects, and other factors, including legal and contractual restrictions, that may be considered relevant by our Board of Directors. Additionally, the payment of cash dividends may be limited by covenants in certain debt agreements. In January 2021, our Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program under which it authorized the Company to repurchase up to 100 million shares of our common stock at management's discretion from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions and through Rule 10b5-1 plans. The share repurchase program has no expiration date and may be suspended for periods, amended or discontinued at any time. Under the share repurchase program, the Company repurchased approximately 21 million shares for an aggregate of $1.8 billion in 2022 and approximately 15 million shares for an aggregate of $2.0 billion during 2021. Approximately 64 million shares remain available for repurchase as of December 31, 2022. Our current plan for 2023 is to reorient our use of excess cash flow from share repurchases to debt reduction, in part given our outlook for business trends in 2023. Although we continue to evaluate the optimal capital structure for our Merchant business following the proposed spin-off, we intend to maintain investment grade debt ratings for FIS. The spin-off will also result in significant one-time costs that we will be required to fund. Cash Flows from Operations Cash flows from operations were $3,939 million, $4,810 million and $4,442 million in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Our net cash provided by operating activities consists primarily of net earnings, adjusted to add back depreciation and amortization and other non-cash items including asset impairments. Cash flows from operations decreased $871 million in 2022 and increased $368 million in 2021. The 2022 decrease in cash flows from operations is primarily due to a decrease in net earnings and settlement timing, partially offset by working capital. The 2021 increase in cash flows from operations is primarily due to an increase in net earnings, partially offset by working capital and settlement timing. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities Our principal capital expenditures are for software (purchased and internally developed) and additions to property and equipment. We invested approximately $1,390 million, $1,251 million and $1,129 million in capital expenditures (excluding other financing obligations for certain hardware and software) during 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. We expect to continue investing in property and equipment, purchased software and internally developed software to support our business. In 2022, we received approximately $726 million of net cash reflected as investing activities due to the settlement of existing cross-currency interest rate swaps. See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements. In 2021, we received approximately $367 million of cash for the net proceeds from the sale of our equity ownership interest in Cardinal Holdings. We used approximately $767 million and $469 million of cash (net of cash acquired, including restricted cash) during 2021 and 2020, for the Payrix and Virtus acquisitions, respectively. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements. Financing For more information regarding the Company's debt and financing activity, see "Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Indebtedness" in Item 1A and "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate Risk" in Item 7A of this Annual Report and Notes 12 and 13 to the consolidated financial statements. Contractual Obligations FIS' long-term contractual obligations generally include its long-term debt, interest on long-term debt, lease payments on certain of its property and equipment and payments for certain purchase commitments and other obligations. See Notes 12, 14 and 16 to the consolidated financial statements for information on our long-term debt, operating leases and Tax Receivable Agreement obligations, respectively. The following table summarizes FIS' other significant contractual obligations and 41 Table of Contents commitments as of December 31, 2022 (in millions): Payments Due in Less than 1-3 3-5 More than Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years Interest (1) $ 3,607 $ 363 $ 584 $ 527 $ 2,133 Purchase commitments (2) 828 430 326 72 Total $ 4,435 $ 793 $ 910 $ 599 $ 2,133 1. The calculations above assume that (a) applicable margins and commitment fees remain constant; (b) all floating-rate debt is priced at the rates in effect as of December 31, 2022; (c) no refinancing occurs at debt maturity; (d) only mandatory debt repayments are made; (e) no new hedging transactions are effected; and (f) there are no currency effects. 2. Includes obligations principally related to software, maintenance support, and telecommunication and network services as well as to third-party processors to provide gateway authorization and other processing services. Also includes the capital obligation related to the construction of our new headquarters. Recent Accounting Pronouncements No new accounting pronouncement adopted, issued or effective during the fiscal year had or is expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements or disclosures. 
