CIK: 1283699
Company Name: T MOBILE US INC 
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2021-02-23
Accession Number: 0001283699-21-000039


Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Sprint Merger and Note 2 - Business Combination of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our 4G Long-Term Evolution ( LTE ) network covers 328 million people (99% of the U.S. population). Additionally, our 5G network is America largest, covering 1.6 million square miles, 280 million people and 9,100 cities and towns across the United States, including Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, as of December 31, 2020. We continue to expand the footprint and improve the quality of our network, providing outstanding wireless experiences for customers who will not have to compromise on quality and value. Going forward, it is this network that will allow us to deliver new, innovative products and services with the same customer experience focus and industry-disrupting mentality that has redefined the wireless communications services industry in the United States in the customers favor. Business As of December 31, 2020, we provide wireless services to 102.1 million postpaid and prepaid customers and generate revenue by providing affordable wireless communications services to these customers, as well as a wide selection of wireless devices and accessories. Our most significant expenses relate to operating and expanding our network, providing a full range of devices, acquiring and retaining high-quality customers and compensating employees. We provide service, devices and accessories across our flagship brands, T-Mobile and Metro by T-Mobile, through our owned and operated retail stores, as well as through our websites (www.t-mobile.com and www.metrobyt-mobile.com), T-Mobile app and customer care channels. In addition, we sell devices to dealers and other third-party distributors for resale through independent third-party retail outlets and a variety of third-party websites. The information on our websites is not part of this Form 10-K. See Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional information. Services and Products We provide wireless communications services through a variety of service plan options. We also offer a wide selection of wireless devices, including smartphones, wearables, tablets and other mobile communication devices, which are manufactured by various suppliers. 5 Table of C o ntents Our primary service plan offering, which allows customers to subscribe for wireless communications services separately from the purchase of a device, is our signature Magenta plan ( Magenta ), which includes, among other benefits, unlimited talk, text and smartphone data on our network, 5G access at no extra cost, scam protection features and more. Customers also have the ability to choose additional features, such as HD video streaming and increased high-speed hotspot data, for an additional cost on our Magenta Plus plan. We also offer an Essentials rate plan for customers who want the basics, as well as specific rate plans to qualifying customers, including Unlimited 55+, Military, First Responder, and Business. Our device options for qualifying customers include: The option of financing all or a portion of the individual device or accessory purchase price at the time of sale over an installment period, generally of 24 months, using an Equipment Installment Plan ( EIP ); For qualifying customers who finance their initial device with an EIP, an option to enroll in our Just Upgrade My Phone ( JUMP! ) program to later upgrade their device; and The option to lease a device over a period of up to 18 months and upgrade it when eligibility requirements are met. We also provide products that are complementary to our wireless communications services, including device protection, Home Internet, TVision and wireline communication services to domestic and international customers. In August 2020, we unified the Sprint retail operations under the T-Mobile brand, providing Sprint customers access to all of our products, services and retail locations. Customers We provide wireless communications services to two primary categories of customers: Postpaid customers generally include customers who are qualified to pay after receiving wireless communications services utilizing phones, wearables, DIGITS (a service that allows our customers to use multiple mobile numbers on any compatible smartphone or device with internet connection) or other connected devices, which include tablets and SyncUp products; and Prepaid customers generally include customers who pay for wireless communications services in advance. Our prepaid customers include customers of T-Mobile and Metro by T-Mobile. We provide Machine-to-Machine ( M2M ) and Mobile Virtual Network Operator ( MVNO ) customers access to our network. This access and the customer relationship is managed by wholesale partners. We generate the majority of our service revenues by providing wireless communications services to postpaid and prepaid customers. Our ability to attract and retain postpaid and prepaid customers is important to our business in the generation of service revenues, equipment revenues and other revenues. In 2020, our service revenues generated by providing wireless communications services by customer category were: 72% Postpaid customers; 19% Prepaid customers; and 9% Wholesale, roaming and other services. Substantially all of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, were earned in the United States, including Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Network Strategy On April 1, 2020, we closed our Merger with Sprint, which greatly enhanced our spectrum position. Integration of the spectrum and network assets acquired in the Merger is expected to occur over the next three years. The integration strategy includes deploying the acquired spectrum on the combined network assets to supplement capacity, migrating Sprint customers to our network and optimizing the combined assets by decommissioning redundant sites to realize synergies. 6 Table of C o ntents Spectrum Position We provide wireless communications services utilizing mid-band spectrum licenses, such as AWS, PCS and 2.5 GHz, low-band spectrum licenses utilizing our 600 MHz, 700 MHz and 800 MHz spectrum and mmWave spectrum. We controlled an average of 329 MHz of combined low- and mid-band spectrum nationwide as of December 31, 2020. This spectrum is comprised of: An average of 40 MHz in the 600 MHz band; An average of 10 MHz in the 700 MHz band; An average of 14 MHz in the 800 MHz band; An average of 66 MHz in the 1900 MHz PCS band; An average of 41 MHz in the AWS band; and An average of 158 MHz in the 2.5 GHz band. In March 2020, the FCC announced the results of Auctions 103 (37/39 GHz and 47 GHz spectrum bands). We were the winning bidder of 2,384 licenses for an aggregate price of $873 million. Prior to the Merger, the FCC announced that Sprint was the winning bidder of 127 licenses in Auction 103. In April 2020, we acquired control of FCC licenses in the 800 MHz, 1900 MHz and 2.5 GHz bands as part of our Merger with Sprint. We plan to evaluate future spectrum purchases in current and upcoming auctions and in the secondary market to further augment our current spectrum position. As of December 31, 2020, we had equipment deployed on approximately 108,000 macro cell sites and 69,000 small cell/distributed antenna system sites across our T-Mobile and legacy Sprint networks. 5G Leadership As of December 31, 2020, our Extended Range 5G covers 280 million people in 9,100 cities and towns covering 1.6 million square miles. Our Ultra Capacity 5G covers 106 million people as of December 31, 2020. Competition The wireless communications services industry is highly competitive. We are the second largest provider of wireless communications services in the U.S. as measured by our total postpaid and prepaid customers. Our competitors include other national carriers, such as AT&T Inc. ( AT&T ) and Verizon Communications, Inc. ( Verizon ). In addition, our competitors include numerous smaller regional carriers, MVNOs, including TracFone Wireless, Inc., Comcast Corporation, Charter Communications, Inc., Altice USA, Inc. and DISH, many of which offer no-contract, postpaid and prepaid service plans. Competitors also include providers who offer similar communication services, such as voice, messaging and data services, using alternative technologies or services. Competitive factors within the wireless communications services industry include pricing, market saturation, service and product offerings, customer experience, network investment and quality, development and deployment of technologies and regulatory changes. Some competitors have shown a willingness to use aggressive pricing as a source of differentiation. Other competitors have sought to add ancillary services, like mobile video or music streaming services, to enhance their offerings. Taken together, the competitive factors we face continue to put pressure on growth and margins as companies compete to retain the current customer base and continue to add new customers. Human Capital Employees As of December 31, 2020, we employed approximately 75,000 full-time and part-time employees, including network, retail, administrative and customer support functions. 7 Table of C o ntents Attraction and Retention We employ a highly skilled workforce within a broad range of functions. Our employees are located throughout the United States, including Puerto Rico, to serve our nationwide network and retail operations. Our headquarters are located in Bellevue, Washington and Overland Park, Kansas. We attract and retain our workforce through a dynamic and inclusive culture and by providing exceptional benefits, including: Competitive medical, dental and vision benefits; Annual stock grants to all full-time and part-time employees and a discounted Employee Stock Purchase Program; A 401(k) Savings Plan; LiveMagenta: a custom-branded program for employee engagement and well-being, including free access to life coaches, financial coaches and tools for healthy living; Access to personal health advocates offering independent guidance; Tuition assistance for all full-time and part-time employees; and A matching program for employee donations and volunteering. To keep our employees safe during the Pandemic, we implemented remote working arrangements for many employees with a significant portion of our internal and global care employees transitioned to a work-from-home environment. We also encouraged our corporate and administrative employees to work remotely, if possible. For employees who did not have this option, we provided access to incremental paid time off for employees experiencing symptoms, taking care of children who were home due to school closures or caring for individuals impacted by the Pandemic. We also continue to encourage healthy practices such as social distancing and hand washing and have increased cleaning and sanitation in all our facilities and stores. See Our Response - To Protect and Support Our Employees and Communities included in Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for information on actions we took to support our employees during the Pandemic. Training and Development We believe in providing opportunities for our employees to improve their skills and advance their careers. We do this through a variety of programs, including: Award-winning career and development programs for all employees at all levels; Transparent career paths available to employees and candidates that provide realistic progression timelines, salaries and expectations; A Customer Care organization that uses 96 types of programs to train over 42,000 front line representatives and leaders; A Leader-to-Executives Program that provides elite career track opportunities for select MBA students and graduates; and Training for employees with disabilities pursuant to U.S. Department of Labor standards. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Diversity, equity and inclusion ( DE&I ) have always been a part of the Un-carrier culture, and we are committed to having DE&I touch every aspect of our future as a bigger and better company. We are on a mission to increase diversity in leadership, talent pipelines, suppliers and customers while embedding inclusive behaviors across the business and investing in the communities we serve. We have established six DE&I Employee Resource Groups and four sub-affinity groups that have helped us establish and maintain a culture of inclusion. Currently, we have over 55 DE&I chapters across the nation that help spearhead volunteer opportunities, events and meaningful conversation with employees at a local level. Our DE&I networks include the following: Accessibility Community at T-Mobile; Multicultural Alliance; Asia Pacific & Allies Network; 8 Table of C o ntents Black Empowerment; Indigenous Peoples Network; Magenta Latinx Network; Multigenerational Network; Pride; Veterans & Allies Network; and Women & Allies Network. We have established an External Diversity and Inclusion Council in connection with our civil rights memorandum of understanding. The council includes civil rights leaders representing a wide-range of underrepresented communities. Together with T-Mobile, the council will help identify ways to improve our efforts in focus areas such as corporate governance, workforce recruitment and retention, procurement, entrepreneurship, philanthropy and community investment. Regulation The FCC regulates many key aspects of our business, including licensing, construction, the operation and use of our network, modifications of our network, control and ownership of our licenses and authorizations, the sale, transfer and acquisition of certain licenses, domestic roaming arrangements and interconnection agreements, pursuant to its authority under the Communications Act of 1934, as amended ( Communications Act ). The FCC has a number of complex requirements that affect our operations and pending proceedings regarding additional or modified requirements that could increase our costs or diminish our revenues. For example, the FCC has rules regarding provision of 911 and E-911 services, porting telephone numbers, interconnection, roaming, internet openness or net neutrality, disabilities access, privacy and cybersecurity, consumer protection and the universal service and Lifeline programs. Many of these and other issues are being considered in ongoing proceedings, and we cannot predict whether or how such actions will affect our business, financial condition or operating results. Our ability to provide services and generate revenues could be harmed by adverse regulatory action or changes to existing laws and regulations. In addition, regulation of companies that offer competing services can impact our business indirectly. Except for operations in certain unlicensed frequency bands, wireless communications services providers generally must be licensed by the FCC to provide communications services at specified spectrum frequencies within specified geographic areas and must comply with the rules and policies governing the use of the spectrum as adopted by the FCC. The FCC issues each license for a fixed period of time, typically 10-15 years depending on the particular licenses. While the FCC has generally renewed licenses given to operating companies like us, the FCC has authority to both revoke a license for cause and to deny a license renewal if a renewal is not in the public interest. Furthermore, we could be subject to fines, forfeitures and other penalties for failure to comply with FCC regulations, even if any such noncompliance was unintentional. In extreme cases, penalties can include revocation of our licenses. The loss of any licenses, or any related fines or forfeitures, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, Congress and the FCC allocation of additional spectrum for broadband commercial mobile radio service ( CMRS ), which includes cellular, PCS and other wireless services, could significantly increase and intensify competition. We cannot assess the impact that any developments that may occur in the U.S. economy or any future spectrum allocations by the FCC may have on license values. FCC spectrum auctions and other market developments may adversely affect the market value of our licenses or our competitive position in the future. A significant decline in the value of our licenses could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the FCC periodically reviews its policies on how to evaluate carriers spectrum holdings. A change in these policies could affect spectrum resources and competition among us and other carriers. Congress and the FCC have imposed limitations on foreign ownership of CMRS licensees that exceed 20% direct ownership or 25% indirect ownership through an entity controlling the licensee. The FCC has ruled that higher levels of indirect foreign ownership, even up to 100%, are presumptively consistent with the public interest, but must be reviewed and approved. Consistent with that established policy, the FCC has issued a declaratory ruling authorizing up to 100% ownership of our Company by DT. For our Educational Broadband Service ( EBS ) licenses in the 2.5 GHz band, FCC rules previously limited eligibility to hold EBS licenses to accredited educational institutions and certain governmental, religious and nonprofit entities, while permitting those license holders to lease up to 95% of their capacity for non-educational purposes. Therefore, we primarily access EBS spectrum through long-term leasing arrangements with EBS license holders. Our EBS spectrum leases typically have an initial 9 Table of C o ntents term equal to the remaining term of the EBS license, with an option to renew the lease for additional terms, for a total lease term of up to 30 years. On April 27, 2020, the FCC lifted the restriction on who can hold EBS licenses and the 30-year limitation on lease duration, among other changes. T-Mobile has started to acquire some of these EBS licenses but we continue to lease most of our spectrum in this band and expect that to be the case for some time. The elimination of these restrictions will allow and may encourage current license holders to sell their licenses to other parties, including to T-Mobile. While a majority of our leases have contractual provisions enabling us to match offers, we may be forced to compete with others to purchase 2.5 GHz licenses on the secondary market and expend additional capital earlier than we may have anticipated. While the Communications Act generally preempts state and local governments from regulating the entry of, or the rates charged by, wireless communications services providers, certain state and local governments regulate other terms and conditions of wireless service, including billing, termination of service arrangements and the imposition of early termination fees, advertising, network outages, the use of devices while driving, zoning and land use. Notwithstanding this federal preemption, in response to the Pandemic, several state legislatures are considering bills that could potentially set prices, minimum performance standards, and/or restrictions on service discontinuation that could impact our business in those states. In addition, following the FCC adoption of the 2017 Restoring Internet Freedom ( RIF ) Order reclassifying broadband internet access services as Title I (non-common carrier services), a number of states have sought to impose state-specific net neutrality and privacy requirements on providers broadband services. The FCC RIF Order preempted such state efforts, which are inconsistent with the FCC federal deregulatory approach. Recently, however, the DC Circuit issued a ruling largely upholding the RIF Order, but also vacating the portion of the ruling broadly preempting state/local net neutrality laws. The court left open the prospect that particular state laws could still unlawfully conflict with the FCC net neutrality rules and be preempted; court challenges to some state enactments are pending. While most states are largely seeking to codify the repealed federal rules, there are differences in some states, notably California, which has passed separate privacy and net neutrality legislation. There are also efforts within Congress to pass federal legislation to codify uniform federal privacy and net neutrality requirements, while also ensuring the preemption of separate state requirements, including the California laws. If not preempted or rescinded, separate state requirements will impose significant business costs and could also result in increased litigation costs and enforcement risks. State authority over wireless broadband services will remain unsettled until final action by the courts or Congress. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission ( FTC ) and other federal agencies have jurisdiction over some consumer protection and elimination and prevention of anticompetitive business practices with respect to the provision of non-common carrier services. Further, the FCC and the Federal Aviation Administration regulate the siting, lighting and construction of transmitter towers and antennae. Tower siting and construction are also subject to state and local zoning, as well as federal statutes regarding environmental and historic preservation. The future costs to comply with all relevant regulations are to some extent unknown, and changes to regulations, or the applicability of regulations, could result in higher operating and capital expenses, or reduced revenues in the future. Available Information The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically at www.sec.gov. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are also publicly available free of charge on the investor relations section of our website at investor.t-mobile.com as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Our corporate governance guidelines, director selection guidelines, code of ethics for senior financial officers, code of business conduct, speak up policy, supplier code of conduct, and charters for the audit, compensation, nominating and corporate governance, executive and CEO selection committees of our Board of Directors are also posted on the investor relations section of our website at investor.t-mobile.com. The information on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the SEC. Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating T-Mobile. Our business, financial condition, liquidity, or operating results, as well as the price of our common stock and other securities, could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. 10 Table of C o ntents Risks Related to Our Business and the Wireless Industry The Pandemic has adversely affected, and will continue to adversely affect, our business, liquidity, financial condition and operating results. The Pandemic has impacted, and will continue to impact, the demand for our products and services, the ways in which our customers use them, where and how we work, and our suppliers and vendors ability to provide products to us. As a result, our business, liquidity, financial condition, and operating results have been, and will continue to be, adversely impacted by the Pandemic. To ensure the safety of both customers and employees, we continue to open, close, and limit capacity of our retail stores in compliance with local and state mandates and orders. However, even when we are able to open stores and provide safe and healthy operating environments, we have seen and may continue to see decreased traffic and therefore lower switching activity in the industry. In addition, the Pandemic has impacted customers ability to pay, and we expect to continue to work with them to help them maintain service and become current on their accounts, which may materially and adversely impact our financial results. These efforts may divert resources from our network buildout and put additional strain on our network, potentially leading to impacts on customer experience. Even after the Pandemic has subsided, we may continue to experience impacts to our business as a result of the Pandemic global economic impact and any recession that has occurred or may occur in the future. Further, as the Pandemic situation is unprecedented and continuously evolving, the Pandemic may also affect our operating and financial results in a manner that is not presently known to us or in a manner that we currently do not consider to present significant risks to our operations. Economic, political and market conditions, including those caused by the Pandemic, may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. Our business, financial condition and operating results are sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, including interest rates, consumer credit conditions, consumer debt levels, consumer confidence, rates of inflation (or concerns about deflation), unemployment rates, economic growth, energy costs, and other macro-economic factors. Our services and device financing plans are available to a broad customer base, a significant segment of which may be vulnerable to weak economic conditions, particularly our subprime customers. We may have greater difficulty in gaining new customers within this segment, and existing customers may be more likely to terminate service and default on device financing plans due to an inability to pay. Further, because we offer a device leasing plan, we expect to realize economic benefit from the estimated residual value of a leased device, which reflects the estimated fair value of the underlying asset at the end of the expected lease term. Changes in residual value assumptions made at lease inception affect the amount of depreciation expense and the net amount of equipment under operating leases. If estimated residual values, in the aggregate, significantly decline due to economic factors, including COVID-19 impacts, obsolescence, or other circumstances, we may not realize such residual value. Sprint historically suffered, and we may suffer, negative consequences including increased costs and increased losses on devices as a result of a lease customer default, the related termination of a lease, and the attempted repossession of the device, including failure of a lease customer to return a leased device. Weak economic conditions and credit conditions may also adversely impact our suppliers, dealers, and MVNOs, some of which may file for bankruptcy, or may experience cash flow or liquidity problems, or may be unable to obtain or refinance credit such that they may no longer be able to operate. Any of these could adversely impact our ability to distribute, market, or sell our products and services. Competition, industry consolidation, and changes in the market for wireless services could negatively affect our ability to attract and retain customers and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We have multiple competitors, many of which possess either more or different access to strategic capital assets, and yet we compete for customers based principally on service/device offerings, price, network coverage, speed and quality and customer 11 Table of C o ntents service. We expect market saturation to continue to cause the wireless industry customer growth rate to be moderate in comparison with historical growth rates, leading to ongoing competition for customers. We also expect that our customers appetite for data services will place increasing demands on our network capacity. This competition and our capacity will continue to put pressure on pricing and margins as companies compete for a relatively fixed pool of customers with an ever-expanding variety of products and services. Our ability to compete will depend upon, among other things, continued absolute and relative improvement in network quality and customer service, effective marketing and selling of products and services, innovation, and attractive pricing, all of which will involve significant expenses. We face intense and increasing competition from other service providers as industry sectors converge, such as cable, telecom services and content, satellite, and other service providers. Companies such as Altice, Charter and DISH are diversifying outside cable, voice and broadband services to also offer wireless services. Competitors such as Comcast and AT&T provide original content services in addition to wireless, cable, voice and broadband services, and consumers are increasingly accessing video content from Internet-based providers and applications, all of which create increased competition in this area. These factors, together with the effects of the increasing aggregate penetration of wireless services in all metropolitan areas and the ability of our larger competitors to use resources to build out their networks and to quickly deploy advanced technologies, such as 5G, could make it more difficult for us to continue to attract and retain customers, and may adversely affect our competitive position and ability to grow, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Joint ventures, mergers, acquisitions and strategic alliances in the wireless sector have resulted in, and are expected to result in, larger competitors competing for a limited number of customers. Further consolidation, including the pending acquisition of TracFone Wireless by Verizon, could negatively impact our businesses, including wholesale. We will experience declining revenues from our wholesale business if Verizon migrates legacy TracFone customers off the T-Mobile network and DISH migrates Boost customers to their standalone network. Our competitors may also enter into exclusive handset, device, or content arrangements, execute pervasive advertising and marketing campaigns, or otherwise improve their cost position relative to ours. In addition, refusal of our competitors to provide critical access to resources and inputs, such as roaming and/or backhaul services, on reasonable terms could negatively impact our business. We could be harmed by data loss or other security breaches, whether directly or indirectly. Our business involves the receipt, storage and transmission of our customers confidential information, including sensitive personal information and payment card information, confidential information about our employees and suppliers, and other sensitive information about our Company, such as our business plans, transactions and intellectual property (collectively, Confidential Information ). Unauthorized access to Confidential Information may be difficult to anticipate, detect, or prevent, particularly given that the methods of unauthorized access constantly change and evolve. We are subject to the threat of unauthorized access or disclosure of Confidential Information by state-sponsored parties, malicious actors, third parties or employees, errors or breaches by third-party suppliers, or other security incidents that could compromise the confidentiality and integrity of Confidential Information. We have previously notified affected customers of incidents involving unauthorized access to certain customer information in compliance with applicable laws concerning customer notice, and we expect we will provide such notices again. For example, in December 2020, we notified a small number of customers of unauthorized access to their account information that is considered customer proprietary network information by the FCC. More typically, such incidents involved attempts to commit fraud by taking control of a customer phone line. In a few cases, incidents involved unauthorized access to credit card information, financial data, social security numbers or passwords. While we do not believe these security incidents were material and actions were taken to prevent reoccurrence, we expect to continue to be the target of cyber-attacks, data breaches, or security incidents, which may in the future have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. As a telecommunications carrier, we are considered a critical infrastructure provider and therefore may be more likely to be the target of cyber-attacks (e.g., denial of service and other malicious attacks). Such attacks against companies may be perpetrated by a variety of groups or persons, including those in jurisdictions where law enforcement measures to address such attacks are ineffective or unavailable, and such attacks may even be perpetrated by or at the behest of foreign governments. In addition, we provide confidential, proprietary and personal information to third-party service providers as part of our business operations. These third-party service providers have experienced data breaches and other attacks that included unauthorized access to Confidential Information in the past, and face security challenges common to all parties that collect and 12 Table of C o ntents process information. Past data breaches include a breach of the networks of one of our credit decisioning providers in September 2015, during which a subset of records containing current and potential customer information was acquired by an external party. Our procedures and safeguards to prevent unauthorized access to sensitive data and to defend against attacks seeking to disrupt our services must be continually evaluated and revised to address the ever-evolving threat landscape. We cannot make assurances that all preventive actions taken will adequately repel a significant attack or prevent information security breaches or the misuses of data, unauthorized access by third parties or employees, or exploits against third-party supplier environments. If we or our third-party suppliers are subject to such attacks or security breaches, we may incur significant costs or other material financial impacts, which may not be covered by, or may exceed the coverage limits of, our cyber insurance, be subject to regulatory investigations, sanctions and private litigation, experience disruptions to our operations or suffer damage to our reputation. Any future cyber-attacks, data breaches, or security incidents may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The scarcity and cost of additional wireless spectrum, and regulations relating to spectrum use, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. As a result of completing the Transactions, we acquired additional spectrum from Sprint, including 2.5 GHz spectrum, that we need in order to continue our customer growth, expand and deepen our coverage, maintain our quality of service, meet increasing customer demands, and deploy new technologies. Although the Merger has reduced our immediate need to acquire additional spectrum, as we continue to enhance the quality of our services in certain geographic areas and deploy new technologies, including 5G, we may acquire additional spectrum in the future. As a result, we will continue to actively seek to make additional investment in spectrum, which could be significant. The continued interest in, and acquisition of, spectrum by existing carriers and others may reduce our ability to acquire and/or increase the cost of acquiring spectrum in the secondary market or negatively impact our ability to gain access to spectrum through other means, including government auctions. Our return on investment in spectrum depends on our ability to attract additional customers and to provide additional services and usage to existing customers. Additionally, the FCC may not be able to provide sufficient additional spectrum to auction or we may be unable to secure the spectrum necessary to maintain or enhance our competitive position in any auction we may elect to participate in or in the secondary market, on favorable terms or at all. The FCC may impose conditions on the acquisition and use of new wireless broadband mobile spectrum that may negatively impact our ability to obtain spectrum economically or in appropriate configurations or coverage areas. If we cannot acquire needed spectrum from the government or otherwise, if competitors acquire spectrum that will allow them to provide services competitive with our services, or if we cannot deploy services over acquired spectrum on a timely basis without burdensome conditions, at reasonable cost, and while maintaining network quality levels, our ability to attract and retain customers and our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. We rely on highly skilled personnel throughout all levels of our business. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel, hire qualified personnel or maintain our corporate culture. The market for highly skilled workers and leaders in our industry is extremely competitive. We believe that our future success depends in substantial part on our ability to recruit, hire, motivate, develop, and retain talented personnel for all areas of our organization, including our CEO and the other members of our senior leadership team. In addition, certain members of our senior leadership team, including our CEO have term employment agreements with us. Our inability to extend the terms of these employment agreements or to replace these members of our senior leadership team at the end of their terms with qualified and capable successors could hinder our strategic planning and execution. Doing so may be difficult due to many factors, including fluctuations in economic and industry conditions, changes to U.S. immigration policy, competitors hiring practices, employee tolerance for the significant amount of change within and demands on our Company and our industry, and the effectiveness of our compensation programs. In addition, uncertainty about the process of integrating T-Mobile and Sprint businesses could have an adverse impact on our employees. These uncertainties may impact our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel, as existing and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with us. If key employees depart, our business could be negatively impacted. We may incur significant costs in identifying, hiring and replacing departing employees and may lose 13 Table of C o ntents significant expertise and talent. As a result, we may not be able to meet our business plan and our revenue growth and profitability may be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to take advantage of technological developments on a timely basis, we may experience a decline in demand for our services or face challenges in implementing or evolving our business strategy. Significant technological changes continue to impact the communications industry. In order to grow and remain competitive, we will need to adapt to future changes in technology, continually invest in our network, increase network capacity, enhance our existing offerings, and introduce new offerings to address our current and potential customers changing demands. Enhancing our network, including our 5G network, is subject to risk from equipment changes and migration of customers from older technologies. Adopting new and sophisticated technologies may result in implementation issues such as scheduling and supplier delays, unexpected or increased costs, technological constraints, regulatory permitting issues, customer dissatisfaction, and other issues that could cause delays in launching new technological capabilities, which in turn could result in significant costs or reduce the anticipated benefits of the upgrades. If our new services fail to retain or gain acceptance in the marketplace or if costs associated with these services are higher than anticipated, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, brand, financial condition and operating results. System failures and business disruptions may allow unauthorized use of or interference with our network and other systems, which could materially adversely affect our reputation and financial condition. To be successful, we must provide our customers with reliable, trustworthy service and protect the communications, location, and personal information shared or generated by our customers. We rely upon systems and networks - those of suppliers and other providers, in addition to our own - to provide and support our services and, in some cases, protect our customers information and our information. System, network or infrastructure failures may prevent us from providing reliable service or may allow for unauthorized use of or interference with our networks and other systems or the compromise of customer information. Examples of these risks include: human error such as responding to deceptive communications or unintentionally executing malicious code; physical damage, power surges or outages, or equipment failure with respect to both our wireless and wireline networks, including those as a result of severe weather and, natural disasters, public health crises, terrorist attacks, political instability and volatility, and acts of war; theft of customer and/or proprietary information offered for sale for competitive advantage or corporate extortion; unauthorized access to our IT and business systems or to our network and critical infrastructure and those of our suppliers and other providers; supplier failures or delays; and system failures or outages of our business systems or communications network. Such events could cause us to lose customers, lose revenue, incur expenses, suffer reputational damage, and subject us to fines, penalties, adverse actions or judgments, litigation or governmental investigation. Remediation costs could include liability for information loss, costs of repairing infrastructure and systems, and/or costs of incentives offered to customers. Our insurance may not cover, or be adequate to fully reimburse us for, costs and losses associated with such events. The challenges in satisfying the large number of Government Commitments in the required time frames and the significant cumulative cost incurred in tracking, monitoring and complying with them could adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. In connection with the regulatory proceedings and approvals required to close the Transactions, we agreed to various Government Commitments. These Government Commitments include, among other things, extensive 5G network build-out commitments, obligations to deliver high-speed wireless services to the vast majority of Americans, and marketing an in-home broadband product to households where spectrum capacity is sufficient. Other Government Commitments relate to national security, pricing and availability of rate plans, employment, substantial monetary contributions to support organizations, and implementation of diversity and inclusion initiatives. The majority of the Government Commitments specify time frames for compliance and reporting. Failure to fulfill our obligations under these Government Commitments in a timely manner could result in substantial fines, penalties, or other legal and administrative actions. 14 Table of C o ntents We expect to incur significant costs, expenses and fees to track, monitor, comply with and fulfill our obligations under these Government Commitments. In addition, abiding by the Government Commitments may divert our management time and energy away from other business operations and could force us to make business decisions we would not otherwise make and forego taking actions that might be beneficial to the Company. The challenges in satisfying the large number of Government Commitments in the required time frames and the cost incurred in tracking, monitoring and complying with them could also adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results and hinder our ability to effectively compete. Our business may be adversely impacted if we are not able to successfully manage the ongoing commercial and transition services arrangements entered into in connection with the Divestiture Transaction and known or unknown liabilities arising in connection therewith. In connection with the closing of the Divestiture Transaction, we and DISH entered into certain commercial and transition services arrangements, including a Master Network Services Agreement (the MNSA ) and a Spectrum Purchase Agreement (the Spectrum Purchase Agreement ). Pursuant to the MNSA, DISH will receive network services from the Company for a period of seven years. As set forth in the MNSA, the Company will provide DISH, among other things, (a) legacy network services for certain Boost Mobile prepaid end users on the Sprint network, (b) T-Mobile network services for certain end users that have been migrated to the T-Mobile network or provisioned on the T-Mobile network by or on behalf of DISH and (c) infrastructure mobile network operator services to assist in the access and integration of the DISH network. Pursuant to the Spectrum Purchase Agreement, DISH has agreed to purchase all of Sprint 800 MHz spectrum (approximately 13.5 MHz of nationwide spectrum) for a total of approximately $3.6 billion; provided, however, that if DISH breaches the Spectrum Purchase agreement prior to the closing or fails to deliver the purchase price following the satisfaction or waiver of all closing conditions, DISH sole liability will be to pay us a fee of approximately $72 million. In such instance, T-Mobile may be required to conduct an auction sale of all of Sprint 800 MHz spectrum under the terms set forth in the Consent Decree, but would not be required to divest such spectrum for an amount less than $3.6 billion. The covered spectrum sale will not occur before the third anniversary of the Merger (i.e., not before April 1, 2023), but must be divested within the later of three years after the closing of the Divestiture Transaction and five days after receipt of the approval from the FCC for the transfer, following an application for FCC approval to be filed by the third anniversary of the closing of the Merger. T-Mobile may exercise an option to lease back 4 MHz (2 MHz downlink + 2 MHz uplink) of the spectrum for two years following the closing of the 800 MHz spectrum sale at the same per person rate used to calculate the purchase price paid by DISH to T-Mobile a rate of approximately $68 million per year. Failure to successfully manage these ongoing commercial and transition services arrangements entered into in connection with the Divestiture Transaction and liabilities arising in connection therewith may result in material unanticipated problems, including diversion of management time and energy, significant expenses and liabilities. There may also be other potential adverse consequences and unforeseen increased expenses or liabilities associated with the Divestiture Transaction, the occurrence of which could materially impact our business, financial condition, liquidity and operating results. In addition, there may be an increase in competition from DISH and other third parties that DISH may enter into commercial agreements with, who are significantly larger and with greater resources and scale advantages as compared to us. Such increased competition may result in our loss of customers and other business relationships. Any acquisition, investment, or merger may subject us to significant risks, any of which may harm our business. We may pursue acquisitions of, investments in or mergers with businesses, technologies, services and/or products that complement or expand our business. Some of these potential transactions could be significant relative to the size of our business and operations. Any such transaction would involve a number of risks and could present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including: diversion of management attention from running our existing business; increased costs to integrate the networks, spectrum, technology, personnel, customer base and business practices of the business involved in any such transaction with our business; difficulties in effectively integrating the financial and operational systems of the business involved in any such transaction into (or supplanting such systems with) our financial and operational reporting infrastructure and internal control framework in an effective and timely manner; potential exposure to material liabilities not discovered in the due diligence process or as a result of any litigation arising in connection with any such transaction; significant transaction-related expenses in connection with any such transaction, whether consummated or not; 15 Table of C o ntents risks related to our ability to obtain any required regulatory approvals necessary to consummate any such transaction; acquisition financing may not be available on reasonable terms or at all and any such financing could significantly increase our outstanding indebtedness or otherwise affect our capital structure or credit ratings; and any business, technology, service, or product involved in any such transaction may significantly under-perform relative to our expectations, and we may not achieve the benefits we expect from the transaction, which could, among other things, also result in a write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets associated with such transaction. For any or all of these reasons, acquisitions, investments, or mergers may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We rely on third parties to provide products and services for the operation of our business, and the failure or inability of such parties to provide these products or services could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We depend heavily on suppliers, service providers, their subcontractors and other third parties for us to efficiently operate our business. Due to the complexity of our business, it is not unusual to engage a diverse set of suppliers to help us develop, maintain, and troubleshoot products and services such as wireless and wireline network components, software development services, and billing and customer service support. Some of our suppliers may provide services from outside of the United States, which carries additional regulatory and legal obligations. We commonly rely on suppliers to provide us with contractual assurances and to disclose accurate information regarding risks associated with their provision of products or services in accordance with our policies and standards, including our Supplier Code of Conduct and our third-party risk management practices. The failure of our suppliers to comply with our expectations and policies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Many of the products and services we use are available through multiple sources and suppliers. However, there are a limited number of suppliers who can support or provide billing services, voice and data communications transport services, wireless or wireline network infrastructure, equipment, handsets, other devices, and payment processing services, among other products and services. Disruptions or failure of such suppliers to adequately perform could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our suppliers, service providers and their subcontractors may not perform at the levels we expect or at the levels required by their contracts. Our suppliers are also subject to their own risks, including, but not limited to, economic, financial and credit conditions and the risks of natural catastrophic events such as earthquakes, floods, hurricanes and public health crises such as the Pandemic. Our business could be severely disrupted if critical suppliers or service providers fail to comply with their contracts or if we experience delays or service degradation during any transition to a new outsourcing provider or other supplier or if we are required to replace the supplied products or services with those from another source, especially if the replacement becomes necessary on short notice. Any such disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our financial condition and operating results will be negatively affected if we experience high fraud rates or volumes related to device financing, customer payment cards, third-party dealers, employees, subscriptions, identities or account takeover fraud. Our operating costs could increase substantially as a result of fraud, including any fraud related to device financing, customer payment cards, third-party dealers, employees, subscriptions, service use/abuse, or account takeover fraud. If our fraud strategies and processes are not successful in detecting, mitigating, and preventing fraud, the resulting loss of revenue or increased expenses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operation results. This includes fraudulent activities perpetrated directly against us or through the systems, processes, and operations of third parties such as national retailers, dealers, and others. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect our business flexibility and increase our borrowing costs. We have, and we expect that we will continue to have, a substantial amount of debt. Our substantial level of indebtedness could have the effect of, among other things, reducing our flexibility in responding to changing business, economic, market and 16 Table of C o ntents industry conditions and increasing the amount of cash required to service our debt. In addition, this level of indebtedness may reduce funds available to support efforts to integrate T-Mobile and Sprint businesses and realize the expected benefits of the Transactions, and may also reduce funds available for capital expenditures, share repurchases and other activities. Those impacts may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to other companies with lower debt levels. Further, we may need to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our debt instruments, which could increase the risks associated with our capital structure. Because of our substantial indebtedness, there is a risk that we may not be able to service our debt obligations in accordance with their terms. Our ability to service our substantial debt obligations will depend on future performance, which will be affected by business, economic, market and industry conditions and other factors, including our ability to achieve the expected benefits of the Transactions. There is no guarantee that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations when due. If we are unable to meet such obligations or fail to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in the agreements governing such debt obligations, we may be required to refinance all or part of our debt, sell important strategic assets at unfavorable prices or make additional borrowings. We may not be able to, at any given time, refinance our debt, sell assets or make additional borrowings on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, instability in the global financial markets could lead to periodic volatility in the credit, equity, and fixed income markets. This volatility could limit our access to the credit markets, leading to higher borrowing costs or, in some cases, the inability to obtain financing on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. Some or all of our variable-rate indebtedness may use the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) as a benchmark for establishing the rate. LIBOR will be discontinued after 2021 and will be replaced with an alternative reference rate. The consequence of this development cannot be entirely predicted but could include an increase in the cost of our variable rate indebtedness. In addition, any hedging agreements we have and may continue to enter into to limit our exposure to interest rate increases or foreign currency fluctuations may not offer complete protection from these risks or may be unsuccessful, and consequently may effectively increase the interest rate we pay on our debt or the exchange rate with respect to such debt, and any portion not subject to such hedging agreements would have full exposure to interest rate increases or foreign currency fluctuations, as applicable. If any financial institutions that are parties to our hedging agreements were to default on their payment obligations to us, declare bankruptcy or become insolvent, we would be unhedged against the underlying exposures. Any posting of collateral by us under our hedging agreements and the modification or termination of any of our hedging agreements could negatively impact our liquidity or other financial metrics. Any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The agreements governing our indebtedness and other financings include restrictive covenants that limit our operating flexibility. The agreements governing our indebtedness and other financings impose material operating and financial restrictions. These restrictions, subject in certain cases to customary baskets, exceptions and maintenance and incurrence-based financial tests, together with our debt service obligations, may limit our ability to engage in transactions and pursue strategic business opportunities, including the following: incurring additional indebtedness and issuing preferred stock; paying dividends, redeeming capital stock or making other restricted payments or investments; selling, buying or leasing assets, properties or licenses, including spectrum; developing assets, properties or licenses that we have or in the future may procure; creating liens on assets securing indebtedness or other obligations; participating in future FCC auctions of spectrum or private sales of spectrum; engaging in mergers, acquisitions, business combinations or other transactions; entering into transactions with affiliates; and our subsidiaries paying dividends or making other payments to us. 17 Table of C o ntents These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain debt financing, make share repurchases, refinance or pay principal on our outstanding indebtedness, complete acquisitions for cash or indebtedness or react to business, economic, market and industry conditions and other changes in our operating environment or the economy. Any future indebtedness that we incur may contain similar or more restrictive covenants. Any failure to comply with the restrictions of our debt agreements may result in an event of default under these agreements, which in turn may result in defaults or acceleration of obligations under these and other agreements, giving our lenders the right to terminate the commitments they had made or the right to require us to repay all amounts then outstanding plus any interest, fees, penalties or premiums. An event of default may also compel us to sell certain assets securing indebtedness under these agreements. Credit rating downgrades could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and operating results, which rely on investment-grade markets. Credit ratings impact the cost and availability of future borrowings and, as a result, cost of capital. Our current ratings reflect each rating agency opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations. Our capital structure and business model are reliant on continued access to the investment-grade debt markets. Each rating agency reviews our ratings periodically, and there can be no assurance that such ratings will be maintained in the future. A downgrade in our corporate rating and/or our issued investment-grade debt ratings, or our amount of secured debt outstanding, could impact our ability to access the investment-grade debt market and adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and operating results. Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Matters Any material weaknesses we identify while we work to integrate and align policies, principles and practices of the two companies following the Merger, or any other failure by us to maintain effective internal controls, could result in a loss of investor confidence regarding our financial statements. Additionally, the trading price of our stock and our access to capital could be negatively impacted, and we could be subject to significant costs and reputational damage that could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we, along with our independent registered public accounting firm, are required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. This requirement is subject to an exemption for business combinations during the most recent fiscal year, which we are utilizing due to the Merger. Any identified material weakness in internal control over financial reporting would still be reported, as obligated. While we integrate and align the policies, principles and practices of the two companies following the Merger, as a result of the differences in control environments and cultures, we could identify material weaknesses that could result in materially inaccurate financial statements, materially inaccurate disclosures, or failure to prevent error or fraud for the combined company. There can be no assurance that remediation of any material weaknesses identified during integration of the two companies will be completed in a timely manner or that the remedial measures will prevent other control deficiencies or material weaknesses. If we are unable to remediate material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, then our ability to analyze, record and report financial information free of material misstatements, to prepare financial statements within the time periods specified by the rules and forms of the SEC and otherwise to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will be negatively impacted. The impact could negatively impact our business, financial condition or operating results, restrict our ability to access the capital markets, require the expenditure of significant resources to correct the weaknesses or deficiencies, subject us to fines, penalties, investigations or judgments, harm our reputation, or otherwise cause a decline in investor confidence. Changes in regulations or in the regulatory framework under which we operate could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We are subject to regulatory oversight by various federal, state and local agencies, as well as judicial review and actions, on issues related to the wireless industry that include, but are not limited to, roaming, interconnection, spectrum allocation and licensing, facilities siting, pole attachments, intercarrier compensation, Universal Service Fund, 911 services, consumer protection, consumer privacy, and cybersecurity. We are also subject to regulations in connection with other aspects of our business, including device financing and insurance activities. The FCC regulates the licensing, construction, modification, operation, ownership, sale, and interconnection of wireless communications systems, as do some state and local regulatory agencies. In particular, the FCC imposes significant regulation 18 Table of C o ntents on licensees of wireless spectrum with respect to how radio spectrum is used by licensees, the nature of the services that licensees may offer and how the services may be offered, and the resolution of issues of interference between spectrum bands. Additionally, the FTC and other federal and state agencies have asserted that they have jurisdiction over some consumer protection, and elimination and prevention of anticompetitive business practices with respect to the provision of wireless products and services. We cannot assure that the FCC or any other federal, state or local agencies will not adopt regulations, implement new programs in response to the Pandemic, or take enforcement or other actions that would adversely affect our business, impose new costs, or require changes in current or planned operations. For example, in response to the Pandemic, T-Mobile implemented the Keep Americans Connected Pledge in March 2020, in which we pledged, through June 2020, to not terminate service for certain customers failing to pay their bills due to the Pandemic, to waive any such customers late fees, and to open our Wi-Fi hotspots to any American who needs them. Similarly, in response to the Pandemic, starting in January 2021 and extending at least 90 days, the California Public Utilities Commission adopted a resolution providing a moratorium on customer disconnects and late fees for certain California customers facing financial hardship. Additionally, under the Obama administration, the FCC established net neutrality and privacy regimes that applied to our operations. Both sets of rules potentially subjected some of our initiatives and practices to more burdensome requirements and heightened scrutiny by federal and state regulators, the public, edge providers, and private litigants regarding whether such initiatives or practices are compliant. While the FCC rules were largely rolled back under the Trump administration, the FCC could possibly revisit that decision under the Biden administration. In addition, some states and other jurisdictions have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws in these areas (including, for example, the CCPA and CPRA as discussed below), and it is uncertain what rules may be promulgated under the Biden administration, perpetuating the risk and uncertainty regarding the regulatory environment and compliance around these issues. In addition, states are increasingly focused on the quality of service and support that wireless communications services providers provide to their customers and several states have proposed or enacted new and potentially burdensome regulations in this area. We also face potential investigations by, and inquiries from or actions by state public utility commissions. We also cannot assure that Congress will not amend the Communications Act, from which the FCC obtains its authority, and which serves to limit state authority, or enact other legislation in a manner that could be adverse to our business. Failure to comply with applicable regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We could be subject to fines, forfeitures, and other penalties (including, in extreme cases, revocation of our spectrum licenses) for failure to comply with FCC or other governmental regulations, even if any such noncompliance was unintentional. The loss of any licenses, or any related fines or forfeitures, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Laws and regulations relating to the handling of privacy and data protection may result in increased costs, legal claims, fines against us, or reputational damage. In January 2020, the California Consumer Privacy Act (the CCPA ) became effective, creating new data privacy rights for California residents and new compliance obligations for us. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant implementation costs to ensure compliance with the CCPA, and we could see increased litigation costs. Moreover, a new privacy law, the California Privacy Rights Act ( CPRA ), was passed by Californians via ballot initiative during the November 3, 2020 election. The CPRA, which is scheduled to take effect on January 1, 2023 (with a lookback to January 1, 2022), will significantly modify the CCPA and will impose additional data protection obligations on companies such as ours doing business in California. Other states (such as Nevada) have passed or are considering similar legislation (such as Washington), which could create more risks and potential costs for us, especially to the extent the specific requirements vary from those in California, Nevada and other existing laws. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant implementation costs to ensure compliance with the CCPA, the CPRA, and their related regulations and any additional laws and regulations could cause us to incur further costs or further constrain our business, strategies, offerings and initiatives. Unfavorable outcomes of legal proceedings may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We and our affiliates are involved in various disputes, governmental and/or regulatory inspections, investigations and proceedings and litigation matters. Such legal proceedings can be complex, costly, and highly disruptive to our business operations by diverting the attention and energy of management and other key personnel. 19 Table of C o ntents In connection with the Transactions, it is possible that stockholders of T-Mobile and/or Sprint may file putative class action lawsuits or shareholder derivative actions against the Company and the legacy T-Mobile board of directors and/or the legacy Sprint board of directors. Among other remedies, these stockholders could seek damages. The outcome of any litigation is uncertain and any such potential lawsuits could result in substantial costs and may be costly and distracting to management. Additionally, on April 1, 2020, in connection with the closing of the Merger, we assumed the contingencies and litigation matters of Sprint. Those matters include a wide variety of disputes, claims, government agency investigations and enforcement actions and other proceedings, including, among other things, certain ongoing FCC and state government agency investigations into Sprint Lifeline program. In September 2019, Sprint notified the FCC that it had claimed monthly subsidies for serving customers even though those customers may not have met usage requirements under Sprint usage policy for the Lifeline program due to an inadvertent coding issue in the system used to identify qualifying customer usage that occurred in July 2017 while the system was being updated. Sprint has made a number of payments to reimburse the federal government and certain states for excess subsidy payments. Unfavorable resolution of these matters could require making additional reimbursements and paying additional fines and penalties. On February 28, 2020, we received a Notice of Apparent Liability for Forfeiture and Admonishment from the FCC, which proposed a penalty against us for allegedly violating Section 222 of the Communications Act and the FCC regulations governing the privacy of customer information. We recorded an accrual for an estimated payment amount as of March 31, 2020, which was included in Accounts payable and accrued liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We, along with equipment manufacturers and other carriers, are subject to current and potential future lawsuits alleging adverse health effects arising from the use of wireless handsets or from wireless transmission equipment such as cell towers. In addition, the FCC has from time to time gathered data regarding wireless device emissions, and its assessment of the risks associated with using wireless devices may evolve based on its findings. Any of these allegations or changes in risk assessments could result in customers purchasing fewer devices and wireless services, could result in significant legal and regulatory liability, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The assessment of the outcome of legal proceedings, including our potential liability, if any, is a highly subjective process that requires judgments about future events that are not within our control. The amounts ultimately received or paid upon settlement or pursuant to final judgment, order or decree may differ materially from amounts accrued in our financial statements. In addition, litigation or similar proceedings could impose restraints on our current or future manner of doing business. Such potential outcomes including judgments, awards, settlements or orders could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We offer regulated financial services products. These products expose us to a wide variety of state and federal regulations. The financing of devices, such as through our EIP, JUMP! On Demand or other leasing programs, such as those acquired in the Merger, has expanded our regulatory compliance obligations. Failure to remain compliant with applicable regulations may increase our risk exposure in the following areas: consumer complaints and potential examinations or enforcement actions by federal and state regulatory agencies, including, but not limited to, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, state attorneys general, the FCC and the FTC; and regulatory fines, penalties, enforcement actions, civil litigation, and/or class action lawsuits. Failure to comply with applicable regulations and the realization of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our business may be impacted by new or amended tax laws or regulations or administrative interpretations and judicial decisions affecting the scope or application of tax laws or regulations. In connection with the products and services we sell, we calculate, collect, and remit various federal, state, and local taxes, fees and regulatory charges ( tax or taxes ) to numerous federal, state and local governmental authorities, including federal and state USF contributions and common carrier regulatory charges and public safety fees. In addition, we incur and pay state and local transaction taxes and fees on purchases of goods and services used in our business. 20 Table of C o ntents Tax laws are dynamic and subject to change as new laws are passed and new interpretations of the law are issued or applied. In many cases, the application of existing, newly enacted or amended tax laws (such as the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act of 2020 or the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017) may be uncertain and subject to different interpretations, especially when evaluated against new technologies and telecommunications services, such as broadband internet access and cloud related services and in the context of our recent merger with Sprint. Legislative changes, administrative interpretations and judicial decisions affecting the scope or application of tax laws could also impact revenue reported and taxes due on tax inclusive plans. In the event that T-Mobile, including pre-acquisition Sprint, has incorrectly described, disclosed, determined, calculated, assessed, or remitted amounts that were due to governmental authorities, we could be subject to additional taxes, fines, penalties, or other adverse actions, which could materially impact our business, financial condition and operating results. In the event that federal, state, and/or local municipalities were to significantly increase taxes and regulatory or public safety charges on our network, operations, or services, or seek to impose new taxes or charges, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our wireless licenses are subject to renewal and may be revoked in the event that we violate applicable laws. Our existing wireless licenses are subject to renewal upon the expiration of the period for which they are granted. Our licenses have been granted with an expectation of renewal and the FCC has approved our license renewal applications. However, the Communications Act provides that licenses may be revoked for cause and license renewal applications denied if the FCC determines that a renewal would not serve the public interest. If we fail to timely file to renew any wireless license or fail to meet any regulatory requirements for renewal, including construction and substantial service requirements, we could be denied a license renewal. Many of our wireless licenses are subject to interim or final construction requirements and there is no guarantee that the FCC will find our construction, or the construction of prior licensees, sufficient to meet the build-out or renewal requirements. Accordingly, we cannot assure that the FCC will renew our wireless licenses upon their expiration. If any of our wireless licenses were to be revoked or not renewed upon expiration, we would not be permitted to provide services under that license, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Each of DT, which controls a majority of the voting power of our common stock, and SoftBank, a significant stockholder of T-Mobile, may have interests that differ from the interests of our other stockholders. Upon the completion of the Transactions, DT and SoftBank entered into the SoftBank Proxy Agreement, and on June 22, 2020, DT, Claure Mobile LLC ( CM LLC ), and Marcelo Claure entered into a Proxy, Lock-up and ROFR Agreement ( the Claure Proxy Agreement, together with the SoftBank Proxy Agreement, the Proxy Agreements ). Pursuant to the Proxy Agreements, at any meeting of our stockholders, the shares of our common stock beneficially owned by SoftBank or CM LLC will be voted in the manner as directed by DT. Accordingly, DT controls a majority of the voting power of our common stock and therefore we are a controlled company, as defined in The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC ( NASDAQ ) listing rules, and we are not subject to NASDAQ requirements that would otherwise require us to have a majority of independent directors, a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors or a compensation committee composed solely of independent directors. Accordingly, our stockholders will not be afforded the same protections generally as stockholders of other NASDAQ-listed companies with respect to corporate governance for so long as we rely on these exemptions from the corporate governance requirements. In addition, pursuant to our Fifth Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation ( Certificate of Incorporation ) and the Second Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement, as long as DT beneficially owns 30% or more of our outstanding common stock, we are restricted from taking certain actions without DT prior written consent, including (i) incurring indebtedness above certain levels based on a specified debt to cash flow ratio, (ii) taking any action that would cause a default under any instrument evidencing indebtedness involving DT or its affiliates, (iii) acquiring or disposing of assets or entering into mergers or similar acquisitions in excess of $1.0 billion, (iv) changing the size of our board of directors, (v) subject to certain exceptions, issuing equity of 10% or more of the then-outstanding shares of our common stock, or issuing equity to redeem debt held by DT, (vi) repurchasing or redeeming equity securities or making any extraordinary or in-kind dividend other than on a pro rata basis, or (vii) making certain changes involving our CEO. We are also restricted from amending our Certificate of Incorporation and bylaws in any manner that could adversely affect DT rights under the Second Amended and 21 Table of C o ntents Restated Stockholders Agreement for as long as DT beneficially owns 5% or more of our outstanding common stock. These restrictions could prevent us from taking actions that our board of directors may otherwise determine are in the best interests of the Company and our stockholders or that may be in the best interests of our other stockholders. DT effectively has control over all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election or removal of directors, changes to our Certificate of Incorporation, a sale or merger of our Company and other transactions requiring stockholder approval under Delaware law. DT controlling interest may have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discouraging a third party from seeking to acquire, the Company. DT and SoftBank, as significant stockholders, may have strategic, financial, or other interests different from our other stockholders, including as the holder of a substantial amount of our indebtedness and as the counterparty in a number of commercial arrangements, and may make decisions adverse to the interests of our other stockholders. In addition, we license certain trademarks from DT, including the right to use the trademark T-Mobile as a name for the Company and our flagship brand, under a trademark license agreement, as amended, with DT. As described in more detail in our Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A filed with the SEC on April 21, 2020 under the heading Transactions with Related Persons and Approval, we are obligated to pay DT a royalty in an amount equal to 0.25% (the royalty rate ) of the net revenue (as defined in the trademark license) generated by products and services sold by the Company under the licensed trademarks subject to a cap of $80.0 million per calendar year through December 31, 2028. We and DT are obligated to negotiate a new trademark license when (i) DT has 50% or less of the voting power of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company or (ii) any third party owns or controls, directly or indirectly, 50% or more of the voting power of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company, or otherwise has the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of the Company. If we and DT fail to agree on a new trademark license, either we or DT may terminate the trademark license and such termination shall be effective, in the case of clause (i) above, on the third anniversary after notice of termination and, in the case of clause (ii) above, on the second anniversary after notice of termination. A further increase in the royalty rate or termination of the trademark license could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Future sales of our common stock by DT and SoftBank and foreign ownership limitations by the FCC could have a negative impact on our stock price and decrease the value of our stock. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that market sales of shares of our common stock by DT or SoftBank will have on the prevailing trading price of our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock could cause our stock price to decline. We, DT and SoftBank are parties to the Second Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement pursuant to which DT and SoftBank are free to transfer their shares in public sales without notice, as long as such transactions would not result in a third party owning more than 30% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. If a transfer would exceed the 30% threshold, it is prohibited unless the transfer is approved by our board of directors or the transferee makes a binding offer to purchase all of the other outstanding shares on the same price and terms. The Second Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement does not otherwise impose any other restrictions on the sales of common stock by DT or SoftBank. Moreover, we may be required to file a shelf registration statement with respect to the common stock and certain debt securities of ours held by DT and SoftBank, which would facilitate the resale by DT or SoftBank of all or any portion of such shares of our common stock or debt securities they hold. The sale of shares of our common stock by DT or SoftBank (other than in transactions involving the purchase of all of our outstanding shares) could significantly increase the number of shares available in the market, which could cause a decrease in our stock price. In addition, even if DT or SoftBank does not sell a large number of their shares into the market, their right to transfer a large number of shares into the market may depress our stock price. Furthermore, under existing law, no more than 20% of an FCC licensee capital stock may be directly owned, or no more than 25% indirectly owned, or voted by non-U.S. citizens or their representatives, by a foreign government or its representatives or by a foreign corporation. If an FCC licensee is controlled by another entity, up to 25% of that entity capital stock may be owned or voted by non-U.S. citizens or their representatives, by a foreign government or its representatives or by a foreign corporation. Foreign ownership above the 25% holding company level may be allowed if the FCC finds such higher levels consistent with the public interest. The FCC has ruled that higher levels of foreign ownership, even up to 100%, are presumptively consistent with the public interest with respect to investors from certain nations. If our foreign ownership by previously unapproved foreign parties were to exceed the permitted level, the FCC could subject us to a range of penalties, including an order for us to divest the foreign ownership in part, fines, license revocation or denials of license renewals. If ownership of our common stock by an unapproved foreign entity were to become subject to such limitations, or if any 22 Table of C o ntents ownership of our common stock violates any other rule or regulation of the FCC applicable to us, our Certificate of Incorporation provides for certain redemption provisions at a pre-determined price which may be less than fair market value. These limitations and our Certificate of Incorporation may limit our ability to attract additional equity financing outside the United States and decrease the value of our common stock. Our stock price may be volatile and may fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our business, financial condition and operating results. The trading prices of the securities of communications companies historically have been highly volatile, and the trading price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations. Our stock price may fluctuate in reaction to a number of events and factors that may include, among other things: adverse economic, political or market conditions in the U.S. and international markets, including those caused by the Pandemic; our or our competitors actual or anticipated operating and financial results; introduction of new products and services by us or our competitors or changes in service plans or pricing by us or our competitors; analyst projections, predictions and forecasts, analyst target prices for our securities and changes in, or our failure to meet, securities analysts expectations; realization of the expected benefits and synergies of the Transactions, or market or analyst expectations with respect thereto; transactions in our common stock by major investors; share repurchases by us or purchases by DT or SoftBank; the potential issuance to SoftBank of the SoftBank Specified Shares Amount, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Letter Agreement (see Note 2 - Business Combination of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information); DT financial performance and results of operations, or actions implied or taken by DT or SoftBank; entry of new competitors into our markets or perceptions of increased price competition, including a price war; our performance, including customer growth, and our financial and operational performance; market perceptions relating to our services, network, handsets, and deployment of our LTE and 5G platforms and our access to iconic handsets, services, applications, or content; market perceptions of the wireless communications services industry and valuation models for us and the industry; conditions or trends in the Internet and the industry sectors in which we operate; changes in our credit rating or future prospects; changes in interest rates; changes in our capital structure, including issuance of additional debt or equity to the public; the availability or perceived availability of additional capital in general and our access to such capital; actual or anticipated consolidation or other strategic mergers or acquisition activities involving us or our competitors, or other participants in related or adjacent industries, or market speculation regarding such activities; disruptions of our operations or the operations of service providers or other vendors necessary to our network operations; and availability of additional spectrum, whether by the announcement, commencement, bidding and closing of auctions for new spectrum or the acquisition of companies that own spectrum, and the extent to which we or our competitors succeed in acquiring additional spectrum. In addition, the stock market has been volatile and has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations in the past, which may continue for the foreseeable future. Severe market fluctuations, such as those experienced recently with regard to the Pandemic, oil and other commodity prices, concerns over sovereign debt risk, trade policies and tariffs affecting other countries, and those that may arise from global and political tensions or weak economic conditions, have had and may continue to have a significant impact on the trading price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in the communications industry. These changes frequently occur irrespective of the operating performance of the affected companies. Hence, the trading price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our business, financial condition and operating results. 23 Table of C o ntents We have never paid or declared any cash dividends on our common stock, and we do not intend to declare or pay any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have never paid or declared any cash dividends on our common stock, and we do not intend to declare or pay any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Our credit facilities and indentures governing our long-term debt to affiliates and third parties contain covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to declare or pay dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to use future earnings, if any, to invest in our business and for general corporate purposes, including the integration of T-Mobile and Sprint businesses and the continued build-out of our 5G network. Therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, and capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be the sole source of potential gain. Risks Related to Integration Although we expect that the Transactions will result in synergies and other benefits, those synergies and benefits may not be realized in the amounts anticipated, or may not be realized within the expected time frame, and risks associated with the foregoing may also result from the extended delay in the integration of the companies. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Transactions will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate our and Sprint businesses in a manner that facilitates growth opportunities and achieves the projected cost savings. In addition, some of the anticipated synergies are not expected to occur for a significant time period following the completion of the Transactions and will require substantial capital expenditures in the near term. As a result of the delays experienced in the completion of the Transactions and the Pandemic, our anticipated synergies and other benefits of the Transactions may be reduced or eliminated, including a delay in the integration of, or inability to integrate, the networks of T-Mobile and Sprint. Even if we are able to integrate the two companies successfully, the anticipated benefits of the Transactions, including the expected synergies and network benefits, may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. We have incurred substantial expenses as a result of completing the Transactions. We expect to incur substantial additional expenses in connection with integrating T-Mobile and Sprint businesses, operations, policies and procedures and compliance with the Government Commitments. While we have assumed that a certain level of transaction-related expenses will be incurred, factors beyond our control could affect the total amount or the timing of these expenses. Many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately. These expenses could exceed the costs historically borne by us and offset the expected synergies. Our business and Sprint business may not be integrated successfully or such integration may be more difficult, time consuming or costly than expected. Operating costs, customer loss and business disruption, including maintaining relationships with employees, customers, suppliers or vendors, may be greater than expected. The combination of two independent businesses is complex, costly and time-consuming, and may divert significant management attention and resources. This process may disrupt our business or otherwise impact our ability to compete. The overall combination of our and Sprint businesses may also result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses and impacts, and loss of customers and other business relationships. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others: diversion of management attention to integration matters; difficulties in integrating operations and systems, including intellectual property and communications systems, administrative and information technology infrastructure, and supplier and vendor arrangements; challenges in conforming standards, controls, procedures and accounting and other policies; alignment of key performance measurements may result in a greater need to communicate and manage clear expectations while we work to integrate and align policies and practices; difficulties in integrating employees; the transition of management to the combined company management team, and the need to address possible differences in corporate cultures, management philosophies, and compensation structures; challenges in retaining existing customers and obtaining new customers; 24 Table of C o ntents difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company; possible delays, disputes, or regulatory issues in connection with the finalizing and consummation of an asset purchase agreement between Sprint PCS and Shentel for all of Shentel wireless assets and customers, and any associated adverse effects on the operations and business in the Shentel service area; compliance with Government Commitments relating to national security; known or potential unknown liabilities of Sprint that are larger than expected; other potential adverse consequences and unforeseen increased expenses or liabilities associated with the Transactions. Additionally, uncertainties over the integration process could cause customers, suppliers, distributors, dealers, retailers and others to seek to change or cancel our existing business relationships or to refuse to renew existing relationships. Suppliers, distributors and content and application providers may also delay or cease developing new products for us that are necessary for the operations of our business due to uncertainties. Competitors may also target our existing customers by highlighting potential uncertainties and integration difficulties. Some of these factors are outside our control, and any one of them could result in lower revenues, higher costs and diversion of management time and energy, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, even if the integration is successful, the full benefits of the Transactions including, among others, the synergies, cost savings or sales or growth opportunities may not be realized. As a result, it cannot be assured that we will realize the full benefits expected from the Transactions within the anticipated time frames or at all. In connection with the Merger, we are evaluating the long-term billing system architecture strategy for our customers. Our long-term strategy is to migrate Sprint legacy customers onto T-Mobile existing billing platforms. We will operate and maintain multiple billing systems until such migration is completed. Any unanticipated difficulties, disruption, or significant delays could have adverse operational, financial, and reputational effects on our business. Following the closing of the Merger, we are operating and maintaining multiple billing systems. We expect to continue to do so until successful migration of Sprint legacy customers to T-Mobile existing billing platforms. We may encounter unanticipated difficulties or experience delays in the ongoing integration efforts with respect to billing, causing major system or business disruptions. In addition, we or our supporting vendors may experience errors, cyber-attacks or other operational disruptions that could negatively impact us and over which we may have limited control. Interruptions and/or failure of these billing systems could disrupt our operations and impact our ability to provide or bill for our services, retain customers, attract new customers or negatively impact overall customer experience. Any occurrence of the foregoing could cause material adverse effects on our operations and financial condition, and/or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and reputational damage. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties As of December 31, 2020, our significant properties that we own, lease and use in connection with switching centers, data centers, call centers and warehouses were as follows: Approximate Number Approximate Size in Square Feet Switching centers 184 11,000,000 Data centers 10 1,800,000 Call center 25 1,800,000 Warehouses 63 1,500,000 Through the Merger, we acquired leases of real property, including cell sites, switch sites, dark fiber, retail stores and office facilities. As of December 31, 2020, we owned and leased: Approximately 108,000 macro towers and 69,000 distributed antenna system and small cell sites; 25 Table of C o ntents Approximately 3,400 T-Mobile and Metro by T-Mobile retail locations, including stores and kiosks ranging in size from approximately 100 square feet to 17,000 square feet; Office space totaling approximately 1.3 million square feet for our corporate offices located in Bellevue, Washington. We use these offices for engineering and administrative purposes; Office space totaling approximately 2.0 million square feet for our corporate offices located in Overland Park, Kansas and Frisco, Texas. We use these offices for administrative purposes; and Office space throughout the U.S., totaling approximately 3.0 million square feet, for use by our regional offices primarily for administrative, engineering and sales purposes. Item 3. Legal Proceedings For more information regarding the legal proceedings in which we are involved, see Note 2 - Business Combination and Note 1 8 Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures None. 26 Table of Contents PART II. Item 5. Market for Registrant Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol TMUS. We are included within the S&P 500 in the Wireless Telecommunication Services GICS (Global Industry Classification Standard) Sub-Industry index. As of January 31, 2021, there were 16,299 registered stockholders of record of our common stock, but we estimate the total number of stockholders to be much higher as a number of our shares are held by brokers or dealers for their customers in street name. We have never paid or declared any cash dividends on our common stock, and we do not intend to declare or pay any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Our credit facilities and indentures governing our long-term debt to affiliates and third parties contain covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to declare or pay dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to use future earnings, if any, to invest in our business and for general corporate purposes, including the integration of T-Mobile and Sprint businesses. Therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, and capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be the sole source of potential gain. Performance Graph The graph below compares the five-year cumulative total returns of T-Mobile, the S&P 500 index, the NASDAQ Composite index and the Dow Jones US Mobile Telecommunications TSM index. The graph tracks the performance of a $100 investment, with the reinvestment of all dividends, from December 31, 2015 to December 31, 2020. 27 Table of Contents The five-year cumulative total returns of T-Mobile, the S&P 500 index, the NASDAQ Composite index and the Dow Jones US Mobile Telecommunications TSM index, as illustrated in the graph above, are as follows: At December 31, 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 T-Mobile US, Inc. $ 100.00 $ 147.01 $ 162.35 $ 162.60 $ 200.46 $ 344.71 S&P 500 100.00 111.96 136.40 130.42 171.49 203.04 NASDAQ Composite 100.00 108.87 141.13 137.12 187.44 271.64 Dow Jones US Mobile Telecommunications TSM 100.00 127.44 130.32 155.09 175.87 191.76 The stock price performance included in this graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following selected financial data are derived from our consolidated financial statements. The data below should be read together with Risk Factors included in Part I, Item 1A, Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Part II, Item 7 and Financial Statements and Supplementary Data included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 28 Table of Contents Selected Financial Data (in millions, except per share and customer amounts) As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2020 (1) 2019 (2) 2018 (3) 2017 2016 Statement of Operations Data Total service revenues $ 50,395 $ 34,500 $ 32,441 $ 30,525 $ 28,085 Total revenues 68,397 44,998 43,310 40,604 37,490 Operating income 6,636 5,722 5,309 4,888 4,050 Total other expense, net (3,106) (1,119) (1,392) (1,727) (1,723) Income tax (expense) benefit (4) (786) (1,135) (1,029) 1,375 (867) Income from continuing operations 2,744 3,468 2,888 4,536 1,460 Income from discontinued operations, net of tax (6) 320 Net income 3,064 3,468 2,888 4,536 1,460 Net income attributable to common stockholders 3,064 3,468 2,888 4,481 1,405 Earnings per share Continuing operations $ 2.40 $ 4.06 $ 3.40 $ 5.39 $ 1.71 Discontinued operations (6) 0.28 Basic $ 2.68 $ 4.06 $ 3.40 $ 5.39 $ 1.71 Continuing operations $ 2.37 $ 4.02 $ 3.36 $ 5.20 $ 1.69 Discontinued operations (6) 0.28 Diluted $ 2.65 $ 4.02 $ 3.36 $ 5.20 $ 1.69 Balance Sheet Data Cash and cash equivalents $ 10,385 $ 1,528 $ 1,203 $ 1,219 $ 5,500 Property and equipment, net (2) 41,175 21,984 23,359 22,196 20,943 Spectrum licenses 82,828 36,465 35,559 35,366 27,014 Total assets (2) 200,162 86,921 72,468 70,563 65,891 Total debt and financing lease liabilities, excluding tower obligations (2) 73,632 27,272 27,547 28,319 27,786 Stockholders' equity 65,344 28,789 24,718 22,559 18,236 Statement of Cash Flows and Operational Data Net cash provided by operating activities (5) $ 8,640 $ 6,824 $ 3,899 $ 3,831 $ 2,779 Purchases of property and equipment (11,034) (6,391) (5,541) (5,237) (4,702) Purchases of spectrum licenses and other intangible assets, including deposits (1,333) (967) (127) (5,828) (3,968) Proceeds related to beneficial interests in securitization transactions (5) 3,134 3,876 5,406 4,319 3,356 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (5) 13,010 (2,374) (3,336) (1,367) 463 Total customers (in thousands) 102,064 67,894 63,656 58,715 54,240 (1) On April 1, 2020, we completed the Merger with Sprint. Our financial results include the consolidated operations of T-Mobile and Sprint subsequent to the date of Merger close. (2) On January 1, 2019, we adopted Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) and all the related amendments (collectively, the new lease standard ), using the modified retrospective method with the cumulative effect of initially applying the guidance recognized at the date of initial application. Comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under the standards in effect for those periods. (3) On January 1, 2018, we adopted ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) and all the related amendments (collectively, the new revenue standard ), using the modified retrospective method with the cumulative effect of initially applying the guidance recognized at the date of initial application. Comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under the standards in effect for those periods. (4) In December 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 ( TCJA ) was signed into legislation. The TCJA included numerous changes to existing tax law, including a permanent reduction in the federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%. The rate reduction took place on January 1, 2018. We recognized a net tax benefit of $2.2 billion associated with the enactment of the TCJA in Income tax expense in our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income in the fourth quarter of 2017, primarily due to a re-measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities. (5) On January 1, 2018, we adopted ASU 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments (the new cash flow standard ) which impacted the presentation of our cash flows related to our beneficial interests in securitization transactions, which is the deferred purchase price, resulting in a reclassification of cash inflows from Operating activities to Investing activities of approximately $4.3 billion and $3.4 billion for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. The new cash flow standard also impacted the presentation of our cash payments for debt prepayment and debt extinguishment costs, resulting in a reclassification of cash outflows from Operating activities to Financing activities of $188 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. There were no cash payments for debt prepayment and debt extinguishment costs during the year ended December 31, 2016. We have applied the new cash flow standard retrospectively to all periods presented. (6) In connection with obtaining regulatory approval for the Merger, on July 1, 2020, DISH acquired the prepaid wireless business operated under the Boost Mobile and Sprint prepaid brands (excluding the Assurance brand Lifeline customers and the prepaid wireless customers of Shentel and Swiftel Communications, Inc.), the results of which prior to the divestiture are presented in Income from discontinued operations, net of tax. 29 Table of Contents Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview The objectives of our Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ( MD&A ) are to provide users of our consolidated financial statements with the following: A narrative explanation from the perspective of management of our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and certain other factors that may affect future results; Context to the financial statements; and Information that allows assessment of the likelihood that past performance is indicative of future performance. Our MD&A is performed on a consolidated basis and is inclusive of the results and operations of Sprint prospectively from the close of our Merger on April 1, 2020. The Merger enhanced our spectrum portfolio, increased our customer base, altered our product mix by increasing the portion of customers who finance their devices with leasing programs and created opportunity for synergies in our operations. We anticipate an initial increase in our combined operating costs which we expect to decrease as we realize synergies. We expect the trends and results of operations of the combined company to be materially different than those of the standalone entities. Our MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read together with, our audited consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020, included in Part I I , Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Except as expressly stated, the financial condition and results of operations discussed throughout our MD&A are those of T-Mobile US, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Beginning with the second quarter of 2020, we have discontinued the use of Branded to describe the results and metrics associated with our flagship brands including T-Mobile and Metro by T-Mobile. Sprint Merger Transaction Overview On April 1, 2020, we completed our Merger with Sprint, a communications company offering a comprehensive range of wireless and wireline communications products and services. As a result, Sprint and its subsidiaries became wholly owned consolidated subsidiaries of T-Mobile. The Merger has altered the size and scope of our operations, impacting our assets, liabilities, obligations, capital requirements and performance measures. We expect the trends and results of operations of the combined company to be materially different than those of the standalone entities. As a combined company, we expect to be able to enhance the breadth and depth of our nationwide 5G network, accelerate innovation, increase competition in the U.S. wireless, video and broadband industries and achieve significant synergies and cost reductions by eliminating redundancies within the combined network as well as other business processes and operations. For more information regarding the Merger, see Note 2 Business Combination of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. On June 22, 2020, we entered into a Master Framework Agreement and related transactions with SoftBank to facilitate the SoftBank Monetization as described in Note 14 - SoftBank Equity Transaction of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 30 Table of Contents Brand and Retail Unification On August 2, 2020, we combined the Sprint and T-Mobile operations under the T-Mobile brand nationwide. We combined our retail operations and rebranded thousands of Sprint stores to T-Mobile stores while implementing the tools and systems across our distribution footprint to serve all customers in all stores. Sale of Boost Mobile and Sprint Prepaid Brands In connection with obtaining regulatory approval for the Merger, on July 1, 2020, DISH acquired the prepaid wireless business operated under the Boost Mobile and Sprint prepaid brands (excluding the Assurance brand Lifeline customers and the prepaid wireless customers of Shentel and Swiftel Communications, Inc.), including customer accounts, inventory, contracts, intellectual property and certain other specified assets (the Prepaid Business ), and assumed certain related liabilities (the Prepaid Transaction ). For more information, see Note 12 - Discontinued Operations of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Upon the closing of the Prepaid Transaction, we entered into a Master Network Services Agreement (the MVNO Agreement ) providing for the provisioning of network services to customers of the Prepaid Business for a period of up to seven years following the closing of the Prepaid Transaction. The revenue generated through this agreement is presented within Wholesale revenues in our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income following the close of the Prepaid Transaction on July 1, 2020. We included the pre-tax results of our discontinued operations in our determination of Adjusted EBITDA, a Non-GAAP measure, to reflect contributions of the Prepaid Business that was replaced by the MVNO Agreement beginning on July 1, 2020. See Adjusted EBITDA in the Performance Measures section of this MD&A. Merger-Related Costs Merger-related costs generally include: Integration costs to achieve efficiencies in network, retail, information technology and back office operations; Restructuring costs, including severance, store rationalization and network decommissioning; and Transaction costs, including legal and professional services related to the completion of the Merger. Transaction and restructuring costs are disclosed in Note 2 Business Combination and Note 1 9 - Restructuring Costs , respectively. Merger-related costs have been excluded from our calculation of Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure, as we do not consider these costs to be reflective of our ongoing operating performance. See Adjusted EBITDA in the Performance Measures section of this MD&A. Cash payments for Merger-related costs, including payments related to our restructuring plan, are included in Net cash provided by operating activities in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Merger-related costs during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 are presented below: (in millions) Year Ended December 31, 2020 Versus 2019 2019 Versus 2018 2020 2019 2018 $ Change % Change $ Change % Change Merger-related costs Cost of services, exclusive of depreciation and amortization $ 646 $ $ $ 646 NM $ NM Cost of equipment sales 6 6 NM NM Selling, general and administrative 1,263 620 196 643 104 % 424 216 % Total Merger-related costs $ 1,915 $ 620 $ 196 $ 1,295 209 % $ 424 216 % Cash payments for Merger-related costs $ 1,493 $ 442 $ 86 $ 1,051 238 % $ 356 414 % NM - Not Meaningful Merger-related costs will be impacted by restructuring and integration activities expected to occur over the next three years as we implement initiatives to realize cost efficiencies from the Merger. Transaction costs, including legal and professional service fees related to the completion of the Merger, are expected to decrease in periods subsequent to the close of the Merger. 31 Table of Contents Restructuring Upon the close of the Merger, we began implementing restructuring initiatives to realize cost efficiencies from the Merger. The major activities associated with the restructuring initiatives to date include: Contract termination costs associated with rationalization of retail stores, distribution channels, duplicative network and backhaul services and other agreements; Severance costs associated with the reduction of redundant processes and functions; and The decommissioning of certain small cell sites and distributed antenna systems to achieve synergies in network costs. Anticipated Impacts Our restructuring activities are expected to occur over the next three years with substantially all costs incurred by the end of fiscal year 2023. We are evaluating additional restructuring initiatives which are dependent on consultations and negotiation with certain counterparties and the expected impact on our business operations, which could affect the amount or timing of the restructuring costs and related payments. We expect our principal sources of funding to be sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements and anticipated payments associated with the restructuring initiatives. As a result of our ongoing restructuring activities, we expect to realize cost efficiencies by eliminating redundancies within our combined network as well as other business processes and operations. We expect these activities to result in a reduction of expenses within Cost of services and Selling, general and administrative in our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. COVID-19 Pandemic The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in a widespread health crisis that has adversely affected businesses, economies, and financial markets worldwide, and has caused significant volatility in the U.S. and international debt and equity markets. The impact of the Pandemic has been wide-ranging, including, but not limited to, the temporary closures of many businesses and schools, shelter in place orders, travel restrictions, social distancing guidelines and other governmental, business and individual actions taken in response to the Pandemic. These restrictions have impacted, and will continue to impact, our business, including the demand for our products and services and the ways in which our customers purchase and use them. In addition, the Pandemic has resulted in economic uncertainty and a significant increase in unemployment in the United States, which could affect our customers purchasing decisions and ability to make timely payments. Throughout the year, the Pandemic has peaked, subsided and seen a resurgence, leading to phased re-openings, as well as continuing or renewed containment measures. As a critical communications infrastructure provider as designated by the government, our focus has been on providing crucial connectivity to our customers and impacted communities while ensuring the safety and well-being of our employees. Our Response We have taken a variety of steps to help mitigate the impact of the Pandemic on our customers and to protect the health and well-being of our workforce and communities: To Protect and Support Our Employees and Communities Before the Merger, in mid-March, approximately 80% of T-Mobile and 70% of Sprint company-owned store locations, as well as many third-party retailer locations that sell our T-Mobile, Metro by T-Mobile and Sprint brands were temporarily closed. In compliance with the regulations of various states, we have since reopened substantially all of our previously closed stores. At the onset of the Pandemic, we supplemented pay for certain of our employees and commissions for third-party dealers and provided access to incremental paid time off for employees experiencing symptoms, taking care of children who were home due to school closures or caring for individuals impacted by the Pandemic. 32 Table of Contents We implemented remote working arrangements for many employees with a significant portion of our internal and global care employees transitioned to a work-from-home environment. We also encouraged our corporate and administrative employees to work remotely, if possible. We also continue to encourage healthy practices such as social distancing and hand washing and have increased cleaning and sanitation in all our facilities and stores. To Keep Our Customers Connected In March, we committed to the FCC Keep Americans Connected pledge, and at the FCC request, later extended our commitment to June 30, 2020. During this period, we pledged to: Not terminate service to any residential or small business customers because of their inability to pay their bills due to disruptions caused by the Pandemic; and Waive any late fees that any residential or small business customers incurred because of their economic circumstances related to the Pandemic. After the Pledge extension ended, we continued to work with our customers to help them maintain service and become current on their accounts, while avoiding financial hardship. We also took additional temporary steps in March to ensure that all current T-Mobile customers with smartphone data plans were provided connectivity to learn and work remotely through June 30, 2020, including: Providing unlimited high-speed smartphone data to current customers as of March 13, 2020 who had legacy plans without unlimited high-speed data (excluding roaming); Giving T-Mobile postpaid and Metro by T-Mobile customers on smartphone plans with mobile hotspot data the ability to add 10GB of Smartphone Mobile HotSpot each month (20GB total); Working with our Lifeline partners to provide customers up to 5GB per month of free data; Increasing the data allowance, at no extra charge, to schools and students using our EmpowerED digital learning program to ensure each participant had access to at least 20GB of data per month; and Providing free international calling to landlines (and, in many cases, mobile numbers) to countries that were significantly impacted by the Pandemic through May 13, 2020. In addition: We are offering our customers creative, new COVID-safe solutions such as virtual selling and curbside pickup; We partnered with multiple spectrum holders and the FCC to successfully deploy additional 600 MHz spectrum on a temporary basis (through June 30, 2020), effectively doubling total 600 MHz LTE capacity across the nation to help ensure customers can stay connected during this critical time; and We are working to keep our network fully operational as an essential service to first responders, 911 communications and our customers and continue to expand our 5G network, while adhering to governmental guidelines. We continue to monitor the Pandemic and its impacts and may adjust our actions as needed to continue to provide our products and services to our communities and employees. Impact on Results of Operations and Performance Measures for the Year Ended December 31, 2020 For the year ended December 31, 2020, we incurred $458 million, before taxes, in supplemental employee payroll, third-party commissions and cleaning-related COVID-19 costs, which are included in Selling, general and administrative expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. These costs have been excluded from the calculation of Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure, as they represent direct, incremental costs as a result of our response to the Pandemic. See Adjusted EBITDA in the Performance Measures section of this MD&A. Expected Continued Impact on Results of Operations and Performance Measures We continue to monitor developments regarding the Pandemic and evaluate the appropriate steps needed to align with guidelines from state, local and federal government agencies and do what is best for our employees and customers. The extent to which the Pandemic impacts our business, operations and financial results will depend on numerous future developments that we are not able to predict at this time, including the duration and scope of the Pandemic, the success of governmental, business 33 Table of Contents and individual actions that have been and continue to be taken in response to the Pandemic, and the impact on economic activity from the Pandemic and actions taken in response. Such impacts may include: Lower net customer additions due to lower switching activity in the industry from reduced store traffic due to temporary retail store closures and reduced consumer spending caused by widespread unemployment and other adverse economic effects, partially offset by lower churn; Lower Equipment revenues and lower Cost of equipment sales from lower device sales due to lower switching activity in the industry from reduced store traffic due to temporary retail store closures, which may impact our ability to sell devices; Higher bad debt expense on our service and EIP receivable portfolios due to adverse macro-economic conditions. Should these adverse conditions worsen, our operating and financial results could be negatively impacted; Continued costs to protect and support our employees and customers; and Potential disruptions in our supply chains. In addition, we have reevaluated, and continue to assess, our spending, including for marketing purposes like advertising, capital projects like build-out of our stores, travel, third-party services and certain operating expenses. We have taken actions to adjust our spending given the significant uncertainty around the magnitude and duration of any recessionary impacts arising from the Pandemic. For additional risks to our business and industry, see Item 1A. Risk Factors . 34 Table of Contents Results of Operations Set forth below is a summary of our consolidated financial results: Year Ended December 31 2020 Versus 2019 2019 Versus 2018 (in millions) 2020 2019 2018 $ Change % Change $ Change % Change Revenues Postpaid revenues $ 36,306 $ 22,673 $ 20,862 $ 13,633 60 % $ 1,811 9 % Prepaid revenues 9,421 9,543 9,598 (122) (1) % (55) (1) % Wholesale revenues 2,590 1,279 1,183 1,311 103 % 96 8 % Roaming and other service revenues 2,078 1,005 798 1,073 107 % 207 26 % Total service revenues 50,395 34,500 32,441 15,895 46 % 2,059 6 % Equipment revenues 17,312 9,840 10,009 7,472 76 % (169) (2) % Other revenues 690 658 860 32 5 % (202) (23) % Total revenues 68,397 44,998 43,310 23,399 52 % 1,688 4 % Operating expenses Cost of services, exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below 11,878 6,622 6,307 5,256 79 % 315 5 % Cost of equipment sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below 16,388 11,899 12,047 4,489 38 % (148) (1) % Selling, general and administrative 18,926 14,139 13,161 4,787 34 % 978 7 % Impairment expense 418 418 NM NM Depreciation and amortization 14,151 6,616 6,486 7,535 114 % 130 2 % Total operating expenses 61,761 39,276 38,001 22,485 57 % 1,275 3 % Operating income 6,636 5,722 5,309 914 16 % 413 8 % Other income (expense) Interest expense (2,483) (727) (835) (1,756) 242 % 108 (13) % Interest expense to affiliates (247) (408) (522) 161 (39) % 114 (22) % Interest income 29 24 19 5 21 % 5 26 % Other expense, net (405) (8) (54) (397) 4,963 % 46 (85) % Total other expense, net (3,106) (1,119) (1,392) (1,987) 178 % 273 (20) % Income from continuing operations before income taxes 3,530 4,603 3,917 (1,073) (23) % 686 18 % Income tax expense (786) (1,135) (1,029) 349 (31) % (106) 10 % Income from continuing operations 2,744 3,468 2,888 (724) (21) % 580 20 % Income from discontinued operations, net of tax 320 320 NM NM Net income $ 3,064 $ 3,468 $ 2,888 $ (404) (12) % $ 580 20 % Statement of Cash Flows Data Net cash provided by operating activities $ 8,640 $ 6,824 $ 3,899 $ 1,816 27 % $ 2,925 75 % Net cash used in investing activities (12,715) (4,125) (579) (8,590) 208 % (3,546) 612 % Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 13,010 (2,374) (3,336) 15,384 (648) % 962 (29) % Non-GAAP Financial Measures Adjusted EBITDA 24,557 13,383 12,398 11,174 83 % 985 8 % Free Cash Flow, excluding gross payments for the settlement of interest rate swaps 3,001 4,319 3,552 (1,318) (31) % 767 22 % NM - Not Meaningful 35 Table of Contents The following discussion and analysis is for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to the same period in 2019 unless otherwise stated. For a discussion and analysis of the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, please refer to Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, filed with the SEC on February 6, 2020. Total revenues increased $23.4 billion, or 52%. The components of this change are discussed below. Postpaid revenues increased $13.6 billion, or 60%, primarily from: Higher average postpaid phone customers, primarily from customers acquired in the Merger and the success of new customer segments and rate plans, as well as continued growth in existing and new markets; Higher average postpaid other customers, primarily from customers acquired in the Merger and growth in other connected devices (tablets and wearable products) and growth in public and educational sector customers; and Higher postpaid phone ARPU, primarily as a result of customers acquired in the Merger. See Postpaid Phone ARPU in the Performance Measures section of this MD&A. Prepaid revenues were essentially flat. Wholesale revenues increased $1.3 billion, or 103%, primarily from: Our Master Network Service Agreement with DISH, which went into effect on July 1, 2020; and Customers acquired in the Merger. Roaming and other service revenues increased $1.1 billion, or 107%, primarily from: Inclusion of wireline operations acquired in the Merger; and Higher Lifeline, advertising and affiliate revenues primarily due to operations acquired in the Merger; partially offset by Lower international roaming due to the impact of the Pandemic, and lower domestic roaming due to revenue generated from Sprint customers roaming on the T-Mobile network in periods before the Merger. Equipment revenues increased $7.5 billion, or 76%, primarily from: An increase of $3.6 billion in lease revenues due to a higher number of customer devices under lease, primarily from leases acquired in the Merger; An increase of $2.5 billion in device sales revenue, excluding purchased leased devices, primarily from: An increase in the number of devices sold, excluding purchased leased devices, due to an increase in our customer base primarily due to the Merger; and Higher average revenue per device sold, excluding purchased leased devices, due to an increase in the high-end device mix due to the Merger; An increase of $625 million in sales of leased devices, primarily due to an increase in purchased leased devices as a result of the Merger; and An increase of $622 million in revenues primarily related to the liquidation of a higher volume of returned devices primarily as a result of the Merger. Operating expenses increased $22.5 billion, or 57%. The components of this change are discussed below. Cost of services , exclusive of depreciation and amortization, increased $5.3 billion, or 79%, primarily from: An increase in expenses associated with leases, backhaul agreements and other network expenses, such as roaming, 36 Table of Contents acquired in the Merger and the continued build-out of our nationwide 5G network; An increase of $646 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, in Merger-related costs including incremental costs associated with accelerating amortization of right-of-use assets for terminated cell sites leases and the decommissioning of certain small cell sites and distributed antenna systems; Higher employee-related and benefit-related costs primarily due to increased headcount as a result of the Merger; An increase in repair and maintenance costs, primarily due to the Merger; and An increase in regulatory and roaming costs primarily due to the Merger. Cost of equipment sales , exclusive of depreciation and amortization, increased $4.5 billion, or 38%, primarily from: An increase of $2.8 billion in device cost of equipment sales, excluding purchased leased devices, primarily from: An increase in the number of devices sold, excluding purchased leased devices, due to an increase in our customer base primarily due to the Merger; and Higher average costs per device sold, excluding purchased leased devices, due to an increase in the high-end device mix due to the Merger; An increase of $759 million in leased device cost of equipment sales, primarily due to an increase in purchased leased devices as a result of the Merger; and An increase of $511 million in costs related to the liquidation of a higher volume of returned devices primarily as a result of the Merger. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $4.8 billion, or 34%, primarily from: Higher employee-related costs due to an increase in the number of employees primarily from the Merger; Higher external labor and professional services, lease and advertising expense from the Merger; $1.3 billion of Merger-related costs, including transaction costs associated with legal and professional services and restructuring costs including severance and store rationalization, compared to $620 million of Merger-related costs in the year ended December 31, 2019; Higher commission expense, primarily due to: Higher gross customer additions primarily due to the increased size of the company as a result of the Merger, partially offset by lower switching activity in the industry from reduced store traffic due to retail store closures arising from the Pandemic; partially offset by Lower commissions expense due to lower prepaid gross additions and compensation structure changes; Higher bad debt expense, primarily due to customers acquired as a result of the Merger and the recording of estimated losses associated with the new credit loss standard, including incremental bad debt for the estimated macro-economic impacts of the Pandemic; and Higher legal-related expenses from recording an estimated accrual associated with the FCC Notice of Apparent Liability and commitments associated with the Merger. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2020 included $458 million of supplemental employee payroll, third-party commissions and cleaning-related COVID-19 costs. Impairment expense was $418 million and consisted of the following: A $218 million impairment on the goodwill in the Layer3 reporting unit; and A $200 million impairment on the capitalized software development costs related to our postpaid billing system. There was no impairment expense for the year ended December 31, 2019. For more information regarding the impairments above, see Note 5 Property and Equipmen t and Note 6 Goodwill, Spectrum License Transactions and Oth er Intangible Assets of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 37 Table of Contents Depreciation and amortization increased $7.5 billion, or 114%, primarily as a result of the Merger, including: Higher depreciation expense from assets acquired in the Merger, excluding leased devices, and network expansion from the continued build-out of our nationwide 5G network; Higher depreciation expense on leased devices resulting from a higher total number of customer devices under lease, primarily from customers acquired in the Merger; and Higher amortization from intangible assets acquired in the Merger. Operating income , the components of which are discussed above, increased $914 million, or 16%. Interest expense increased $1.8 billion, or 242%, primarily from: The assumption of debt with a fair value of $31.8 billion in connection with the Merger; The issuance of an aggregate of $19.0 billion in Senior Secured Notes and the entry into a $4.0 billion secured term loan in April 2020 in connection with the Merger; Amortization of interest rate swap derivatives beginning upon settlement in April 2020; and The issuance of an aggregate of $8.75 billion in Senior Secured Notes in October 2020. Interest expense to affiliates decreased $161 million, or 39%, primarily from the redemption of an aggregate of $5.25 billion in Senior Notes to affiliates and the repayment of an aggregate of $4.0 billion in Incremental term loan facility to affiliates in 2020, partially offset by lower capitalized interest. Other expense, net increased $397 million, primarily from losses on the extinguishment of debt. Income from continuing operations before income taxes, the components of which are discussed above, was $3.5 billion and $4.6 billion for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Income tax expense decreased $349 million, or 31%, primarily from: Lower income before income taxes; and A lower effective tax rate, primarily due to changes in state income taxes and excess tax benefits, partially offset by an increase in non-deductible expenses, including certain Merger-related costs. The effective tax rate was 22.3% and 24.7% for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Income from continuing operations decreased $724 million, or 21%, primarily from: Higher Interest expense; and Higher Other expense, net; partially offset by Higher operating income; and Lower Income tax expense. Income from discontinued operations, net of tax was $320 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, and consists of the results of the Prepaid Business that was divested on July 1, 2020. There were no discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2019. For more information regarding the Prepaid Transaction, see Note 12 Discontinued Operations of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 38 Table of Contents Net income , the components of which are discussed above, decreased $404 million, or 12%, and included the following: Merger-related costs, net of tax, of $1.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to $501 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The negative impact of supplemental employee payroll, third-party commissions and cleaning-related COVID-19 costs, net of tax, of $339 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to no impact for the year ended December 31, 2019. Impairment expense of $366 million, net of tax, for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to no impairment expense for the year ended December 31, 2019. Guarantor Financial Information On March 2, 2020, the SEC adopted amendments to the financial disclosure requirements for guarantors and issuers of guaranteed securities, as well for affiliates whose securities collateralize a registrant securities. We early adopted the requirements of the amendments on January 1, 2020, which included replacing guarantor condensed consolidating financial information with summarized financial information for the consolidated obligor group (Parent, Issuer, and Guarantor Subsidiaries) and no longer requiring guarantor cash flow information, financial information for non-guarantor subsidiaries, or a reconciliation to the consolidated results. On April 1, 2020, in connection with the closing of the Merger, we assumed certain registered debt to third parties issued by Sprint, Sprint Communications, Inc. and Sprint Capital Corporation (collectively, the Sprint Issuers ). Amounts previously disclosed for the estimated values of certain acquired assets and liabilities assumed have been adjusted based on additional information arising subsequent to the initial valuation. These revisions to the estimated values did not have a significant impact on our summarized financial information for the consolidated obligor group. Pursuant to the applicable indentures and supplemental indentures, the long-term debt to affiliates and third parties issued by T-Mobile USA, Inc. and the Sprint Issuers (collectively, the Issuers ) is fully and unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally, on a senior unsecured basis by T-Mobile ( Parent ) and certain of Parent 100% owned subsidiaries ( Guarantor Subsidiaries ). The guarantees of the Guarantor Subsidiaries are subject to release in limited circumstances only upon the occurrence of certain customary conditions. The indentures, supplemental indentures and credit agreements governing the long-term debt contain covenants that, among other things, limit the ability of the Issuers or borrowers and the Guarantor Subsidiaries to incur more debt, pay dividends and make distributions, make certain investments, repurchase stock, create liens or other encumbrances, enter into transactions with affiliates, enter into transactions that restrict dividends or distributions from subsidiaries, and merge, consolidate or sell, or otherwise dispose of, substantially all of their assets. Certain provisions of each of the credit agreements, indentures and supplemental indentures relating to the long-term debt restrict the ability of the Issuers or borrowers to loan funds or make payments to Parent. However, the Issuers or borrowers and Guarantor Subsidiaries are allowed to make certain permitted payments to Parent under the terms of the indentures, supplemental indentures and credit agreements. In December 2019, the FASB issued ASU 2019-12, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Simplifying the Accounting for Income Taxes. The standard simplifies the accounting for income taxes by removing certain exceptions to the general principles in Topic 740. We early adopted the standard on January 1, 2020 and have applied the standard retrospectively to all periods presented. Upon the adoption of the standard, deferred tax assets of non-guarantor entities in aggregate of $163 million were reclassified and netted with the deferred tax liabilities of the guarantor obligor group of the debt issued by T-Mobile USA, Inc. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2020. In March 2020, certain Guarantor Subsidiaries became non-Guarantor Subsidiaries. Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. In connection with the preparation of our guarantor financial information for the year ended December 31, 2020, we determined that the summarized balance sheet information and summarized results of operations for the consolidated obligor group of debt issued by T-Mobile USA, Inc., as presented in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarterly periods ended March 31, 2020, June 30, 2020, and September 30, 2020, should be adjusted to exclude investments in non-guarantor subsidiaries and the related equity method income from non-guarantor subsidiaries as of and for the year-to-date periods ending December 31, 2019, March 31, 2020, June 30, 2020 and September 30, 2020. We also determined the summarized balance sheet information 39 Table of Contents and summarized results of operations for the consolidated obligor groups of debt issued by Sprint, Sprint Communications, Inc. and Sprint Capital Corporation, as presented in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarterly periods ended June 30, 2020, and September 30, 2020, should be adjusted as well to exclude investments in their respective non-guarantor subsidiaries for the year-to-date periods ending June 30, 2020 and September 30, 2020. Therefore, we have updated the historical summarized financial information for these periods and obligor groups as set forth below. This adjustment does not impact the Consolidated Financial Statements for any quarterly or annual periods and does not impact guarantor financial information filed prior to our adoption of the new disclosure requirements for guarantors and issuers of guaranteed securities on January 1, 2020. Basis of Presentation The following tables include summarized financial information of the obligor groups of debt issued by T-Mobile USA, Inc., Sprint, Sprint Communications, Inc., and Sprint Capital Corporation. The summarized financial information of each obligor group is presented on a combined basis with balances and transactions within the obligor group eliminated. Investments in and the equity in earnings of non-guarantor subsidiaries which would otherwise be consolidated in accordance with U.S. GAAP are excluded from the below summarized financial information pursuant to SEC Regulation S-X Rule 13-01. The summarized balance sheet information for the consolidated obligor group of debt issued by T-Mobile USA, Inc. is presented in the table below: (in millions) March 31, 2020 June 30, 2020 September 30, 2020 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 Current assets $ 8,431 $ 23,105 $ 18,035 $ 22,638 $ 8,177 Noncurrent assets 77,827 154,164 164,220 165,294 77,684 Current liabilities 14,125 21,487 17,765 19,982 11,885 Noncurrent liabilities 41,330 101,662 109,249 112,930 43,448 Due to non-guarantors 7,054 7,183 7,433 Due from non-guarantors 358 346 Due to related parties 14,215 6,067 4,846 4,873 14,173 Due from related parties 26 24 19 22 20 The summarized results of operations information for the consolidated obligor group of debt issued by T-Mobile USA, Inc. is presented in the table below: Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 Six Months Ended June 30, 2020 Nine Months Ended September 30, 2020 Year Ended December 31, 2020 Year Ended December 31, 2019 (in millions) Total revenues $ 10,694 $ 28,071 $ 47,076 $ 67,112 $ 43,431 Operating income 1,309 1,525 3,353 4,335 4,761 Net income 809 412 1,029 1,148 2,860 Revenue from non-guarantors 259 656 1,088 1,496 974 Operating expenses to non-guarantors 129 775 1,443 2,127 668 Other expense to non-guarantors (40) (77) (114) The summarized balance sheet information for the consolidated obligor group of debt issued by Sprint and Sprint Communications, Inc. is presented in the table below: (in millions) June 30, 2020 September 30, 2020 December 31, 2020 Current assets $ 1,619 $ 1,051 $ 2,646 Noncurrent assets 49,525 25,512 26,278 Current liabilities 4,716 3,317 4,209 Noncurrent liabilities 64,845 61,437 65,161 Due from non-guarantors 49,254 25,231 25,993 Due to related parties 6,025 4,774 4,786 Due from related parties 5 40 Table of Contents The summarized results of operations information for the consolidated obligor group of debt issued by Sprint and Sprint Communications, Inc., since the acquisition of Sprint on April 1, 2020, is presented in the table below: Three Months Ended June 30, 2020 Six Months Ended September 30, 2020 Nine Months Ended December 31, 2020 (in millions) Total revenues $ 2 $ 4 $ 10 Operating loss (15) (17) (15) Net loss (819) (1,651) (2,229) Revenue from non-guarantors 2 4 6 Other income, net, from non-guarantors 367 732 1,084 The summarized balance sheet information for the consolidated obligor group of debt issued by Sprint Capital Corporation is presented in the table below: (in millions) June 30, 2020 September 30, 2020 December 31, 2020 Current assets $ 1,619 $ 1,051 $ 2,646 Noncurrent assets 58,547 34,540 35,330 Current liabilities 4,788 3,388 4,281 Noncurrent liabilities 70,070 66,530 70,253 Due from non-guarantors 58,276 34,259 35,046 Due to related parties 6,025 4,774 4,786 Due from related parties 5 The summarized results of operations information for the consolidated obligor group of debt issued by Sprint Capital Corporation, since the acquisition of Sprint on April 1, 2020, is presented in the table below: Three Months Ended June 30, 2020 Six Months Ended September 30, 2020 Nine Months Ended December 31, 2020 (in millions) Total revenues $ 2 $ 4 $ 10 Operating loss (15) (17) (15) Net loss (804) (1,608) (2,165) Revenue from non-guarantors 2 4 6 Other income, net, from non-guarantors 366 732 1,085 Performance Measures In managing our business and assessing financial performance, we supplement the information provided by our financial statements with other operating or statistical data and non-GAAP financial measures. These operating and financial measures are utilized by our management to evaluate our operating performance and, in certain cases, our ability to meet liquidity requirements. Although companies in the wireless industry may not define each of these measures in precisely the same way, we believe that these measures facilitate comparisons with other companies in the wireless industry on key operating and financial measures. The performance measures presented below include the impact of the Merger on a prospective basis from the close date of April 1, 2020. Historical results were not restated. Customers A customer is generally defined as a SIM number with a unique T-Mobile identifier which is associated with an account that generates revenue. Customers are qualified either for postpaid service utilizing phones, wearables, DIGITS or other connected devices, which include tablets and SyncUp products, where they generally pay after receiving service, or prepaid service, where they generally pay in advance of receiving service. Our postpaid customers include customers of T-Mobile. Our prepaid customers include customers of T-Mobile and Metro by T-Mobile. 41 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the number of ending customers: As of December 31, 2020 Versus 2019 2019 Versus 2018 (in thousands) 2020 2019 2018 # % # % Customers, end of period Postpaid phone customers (1) 66,618 40,345 37,224 26,273 65 % 3,121 8 % Postpaid other customers (1) 14,732 6,689 5,295 8,043 120 % 1,394 26 % Total postpaid customers 81,350 47,034 42,519 34,316 73 % 4,515 11 % Prepaid customers (1),(2) 20,714 20,860 21,137 (146) (1) % (277) (1) % Total customers 102,064 67,894 63,656 34,170 50 % 4,238 7 % Adjustment to prepaid customers (2) (616) 616 (100) % (616) NM NM - Not Meaningful (1) Includes customers acquired in connection with the Merger and certain customer base adjustments. See Customer Base Adjustments and Net Customer Additions tables below. (2) On July 18, 2019, we entered into an agreement whereby certain T-Mobile prepaid products will now be offered and distributed by a current MVNO partner. As a result, we included a base adjustment in the third quarter of 2019 to reduce prepaid customers by 616,000. Total customers increased 34,170,000, or 50%, primarily from: Higher postpaid phone customers, primarily due to customers acquired in the Merger and the success of new customer segments and rate plans and continued growth in existing and new markets, along with promotional activities; and Higher postpaid other customers, primarily due to customers acquired in the Merger and growth in other connected devices primarily related to public and educational sector customers and wearable products; partially offset by Lower prepaid customers, primarily due to the customer base adjustments made to align the customer reporting policies of T-Mobile and Sprint, partially offset by the continued success of our prepaid business due to promotional activities and rate plan offers. Customer Base Adjustments Certain adjustments were made to align the customer reporting policies of T-Mobile and Sprint. The adjustments made to the reported T-Mobile and Sprint ending customer base as of March 31, 2020, are presented below: (in thousands) Postpaid phone customers Postpaid other customers Total postpaid customers Prepaid customers Total customers Reconciliation to beginning customers T-Mobile customers as reported, end of period March 31, 2020 40,797 7,014 47,811 20,732 68,543 Sprint customers as reported, end of period March 31, 2020 25,916 8,428 34,344 8,256 42,600 Total combined customers, end of period March 31, 2020 66,713 15,442 82,155 28,988 111,143 Adjustments Reseller reclassification to wholesale customers (1) (199) (2,872) (3,071) (3,071) EIP reclassification from postpaid to prepaid (2) (963) (963) 963 Divested prepaid customers (3) (9,207) (9,207) Rate plan threshold (4) (182) (918) (1,100) (1,100) Customers with non-phone devices (5) (226) 226 Collection policy alignment (6) (150) (46) (196) (196) Miscellaneous adjustments (7) (141) (43) (184) (302) (486) Total Adjustments (1,861) (3,653) (5,514) (8,546) (14,060) Adjusted beginning customers as of April 1, 2020 64,852 11,789 76,641 20,442 97,083 (1) In connection with the closing of the Merger, we refined our definition of wholesale customers resulting in the reclassification of certain postpaid and prepaid reseller customers to wholesale customers. Starting with the three months ended March 31, 2020, we discontinued reporting wholesale customers to focus on postpaid and prepaid customers and wholesale revenues, which we consider more relevant than the number of wholesale customers given the expansion of M2M and IoT products. (2) Prepaid customers with a device installment billing plan historically included as Sprint postpaid customers have been reclassified to prepaid customers to align with T-Mobile policy. (3) Customers associated with the Sprint wireless prepaid and Boost Mobile brands that were divested on July 1, 2020, have been excluded from our reported customers. (4) Customers who have rate plans with monthly recurring charges which are considered insignificant have been excluded from our reported customers. 42 Table of Contents (5) Customers with postpaid phone rate plans without a phone (e.g., non-phone devices) have been reclassified from postpaid phone to postpaid other customers to align with T-Mobile policy. (6) Certain Sprint customers subject to collection activity for an extended period of time have been excluded from our reported customers to align with T-Mobile policy. (7) Miscellaneous insignificant adjustments to align with T-Mobile policy. Net Customer Additions The following table sets forth the number of net customer additions: Year Ended December 31, 2020 Versus 2019 2019 Versus 2018 (in thousands) 2020 2019 2018 # % # % Net customer additions Postpaid phone customers 2,218 3,121 3,097 (903) (29) % 24 1 % Postpaid other customers 3,268 1,394 1,362 1,874 134 % 32 2 % Total postpaid customers 5,486 4,515 4,459 971 22 % 56 1 % Prepaid customers (1) 145 339 460 (194) (57) % (121) (26) % Total customers 5,631 4,854 4,919 777 16 % (65) (1) % Acquired customers, net of base adjustments 29,228 29,228 NM NM NM - Not Meaningful (1) On July 18, 2019, we entered into an agreement whereby certain T-Mobile prepaid products will now be offered and distributed by a current MVNO partner. As a result, we included a base adjustment in the third quarter of 2019 to reduce prepaid customers by 616,000. Total net customer additions increased 777,000, or 16%, primarily from: Higher postpaid other net customer additions, primarily due to higher gross additions from connected devices, primarily due to public and educational sector additions and lower churn, partially offset by lower switching activity in the industry from reduced store traffic due to retail store closures arising from the Pandemic; partially offset by Lower postpaid phone net customer additions, primarily due to higher churn from customers acquired in the Merger and lower switching activity in the industry from reduced store traffic due to retail store closures arising from the Pandemic; and Lower prepaid gross customer additions, partially offset by lower churn, both primarily due to lower switching activity in the industry from reduced store traffic due to retail store closures arising from the Pandemic. Churn Churn represents the number of customers whose service was disconnected as a percentage of the average number of customers during the specified period. The number of customers whose service was disconnected is presented net of customers that subsequently have their service restored within a certain period of time. We believe that churn provides management, investors and analysts with useful information to evaluate customer retention and loyalty. The following table sets forth the churn: Year Ended December 31, Bps Change 2020 Versus 2019 Bps Change 2019 Versus 2018 2020 2019 2018 Postpaid phone churn 0.90 % 0.89 % 1.01 % 1 bps -12 bps Prepaid churn 3.03 % 3.82 % 3.96 % -79 bps -14 bps Postpaid phone churn was essentially flat, primarily due to the inclusion of the customer base acquired in the Merger with higher churn, offset by lower switching activity in the industry due to reduced store traffic due to temporary retail store closures arising from the Pandemic. Prepaid churn decreased 79 basis points, primarily due to lower switching activity in the industry due to reduced store traffic due to temporary retail store closures arising from the Pandemic and the continued success of our prepaid products due to promotional activities and rate plan offers. 43 Table of Contents Total Postpaid Accounts A postpaid account is generally defined as a billing account number that generates revenue. Postpaid accounts are generally comprised of customers that are qualified for postpaid service utilizing phones, wearables, DIGITS or other connected devices which include tablets and SyncUp products, where they generally pay after receiving service. As of December 31, 2020 Versus 2019 2019 Versus 2018 (in thousands) 2020 2019 2018 # Change % Change # Change % Change Accounts, end of period Total postpaid customer accounts (1) 25,754 15,047 14,015 10,707 71 % 1,032 7 % (1) Includes accounts acquired in connection with the Merger and certain account base adjustments. See Account Base Adjustments table below. Total postpaid customer accounts increased 10,707,000, or 71%, primarily due to 10,150,000 accounts acquired in the Merger, the success of new customer segments and rate plans, continued growth in existing and new markets, along with promotional activities, improvements in network quality and industry-leading customer service, partially offset by lower switching activity in the industry from reduced store traffic due to retail store closures resulting from the Pandemic. Account Base Adjustments Certain adjustments were made to align the account reporting policies of T-Mobile and Sprint. The adjustments made to the reported T-Mobile and Sprint ending account base as of March 31, 2020 are presented below: (in thousands) Postpaid Accounts Reconciliation to beginning accounts T-Mobile accounts as reported, end of period March 31, 2020 15,244 Sprint accounts, end of period March 31, 2020 11,246 Total combined accounts, end of period March 31, 2020 26,490 Adjustments Reseller reclassification to wholesale accounts (1) (1) EIP reclassification from postpaid to prepaid (2) (963) Rate plan threshold (3) (18) Collection policy alignment (4) (76) Miscellaneous adjustments (5) (47) Total Adjustments (1,105) Adjusted beginning accounts as of April 1, 2020 25,385 (1) In connection with the closing of the Merger, we refined our definition of wholesale accounts resulting in the reclassification of certain postpaid and prepaid reseller accounts to wholesale accounts. (2) Prepaid accounts with a customer with a device installment billing plan historically included as Sprint postpaid accounts have been reclassified to prepaid accounts to align with T-Mobile policy. (3) Accounts with customers who have rate plans with monthly recurring charges which are considered insignificant have been excluded from our reported accounts. (4) Certain Sprint accounts subject to collection activity for an extended period of time have been excluded from our reported accounts to align with T-Mobile policy. (5) Miscellaneous insignificant adjustments to align with T-Mobile policy. Average Revenue Per User ARPU represents the average monthly service revenue earned from customers. We believe ARPU provides management, investors and analysts with useful information to assess and evaluate our service revenue per customer and assist in forecasting our future service revenues generated from our customer base. Postpaid phone ARPU excludes postpaid other customers and related revenues, which include wearables, DIGITS and other connected devices such as tablets and SyncUp products. 44 Table of Contents The following table illustrates the calculation of our operating measure ARPU and reconciles this measure to the related service revenues: (in millions, except average number of customers and ARPU) Year Ended December 31, 2020 Versus 2019 2019 Versus 2018 2020 2019 2018 $ Change % Change $ Change % Change Calculation of Postpaid Phone ARPU Postpaid service revenues $ 36,306 $ 22,673 $ 20,862 $ 13,633 60 % $ 1,811 9 % Less: Postpaid other revenues (2,367) (1,344) (1,117) (1,023) 76 % (227) 20 % Postpaid phone service revenues 33,939 21,329 19,745 12,610 59 % 1,584 8 % Divided by: Average number of postpaid phone customers (in thousands) and number of months in period 59,249 38,602 35,458 20,647 53 % 3,144 9 % Postpaid phone ARPU $ 47.74 $ 46.04 $ 46.40 $ 1.70 4 % $ (0.36) (1) % Calculation of Prepaid ARPU Prepaid service revenues $ 9,421 $ 9,543 $ 9,598 $ (122) (1) % $ (55) (1) % Divided by: Average number of prepaid customers (in thousands) and number of months in period 20,594 20,955 20,761 (361) (2) % 194 1 % Prepaid ARPU $ 38.12 $ 37.95 $ 38.53 $ 0.17 % $ (0.58) (2) % Postpaid Phone ARPU Postpaid phone ARPU increased $1.70, or 4%, primarily due to: The net impact of customers acquired in the Merger, which have higher ARPU (net of changes arising from the reduction in base due to policy adjustments and reclassification of certain ARPU components from the acquired customers being moved to other revenue lines); and Higher premium service revenues; partially offset by An increase in our promotional activities. Prepaid ARPU Prepaid ARPU was essentially flat and was primarily impacted by: The impacts of certain adjustments to our customer base, including the removal of certain prepaid customers associated with products now offered and distributed by a current MVNO partner as those customers had lower ARPU; offset by Dilution from promotional rate plans; and A reduction in certain non-recurring charges. Average Revenue Per Account Average Revenue per Account ( ARPA ) represents the average monthly postpaid service revenue earned per account. We believe postpaid ARPA provides management, investors and analysts with useful information to assess and evaluate our postpaid service revenue realization and assist in forecasting our future postpaid service revenues on a per account basis. We consider postpaid ARPA to be indicative of our revenue growth potential given the increase in the average number of postpaid phone customers per account and increases in postpaid other customers, including wearables, DIGITS or other connected devices, which include tablets and SyncUp products. 45 Table of Contents The following table illustrates the calculation of our operating measure ARPA and reconciles this measure to the related service revenues: (in millions, except average number of accounts, ARPA) Year Ended December 31, 2020 Versus 2019 2019 Versus 2018 2020 2019 2018 $ Change % Change $ Change % Change Calculation of Postpaid ARPA Postpaid service revenues $ 36,306 $ 22,673 $ 20,862 $ 13,633 60 % $ 1,811 9 % Divided by: Average number of postpaid accounts (in thousands) and number of months in period 22,959 14,486 13,492 8,473 58 % 994 7 % Postpaid ARPA $ 131.78 $ 130.43 $ 128.86 $ 1.35 1 % $ 1.57 1 % Postpaid ARPA Postpaid ARPA increased $1.35, or 1%, primarily due to: An increase in customers per account, including further penetration in connected devices, and the success of new customer segments and rate plans; Higher premium service revenues; and The net impact of customers acquired in the Merger; partially offset by An increase in our promotional activities; and A reduction in certain non-recurring charges, including from the impact of the Pandemic. Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA represents earnings before Interest expense, net of Interest income, Income tax expense, Depreciation and amortization, non-cash Stock-based compensation and certain income and expenses not reflective of our ongoing operating performance. Net income margin represents Net income divided by Service revenues. Adjusted EBITDA margin represents Adjusted EBITDA divided by Service revenues. Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure utilized by our management to monitor the financial performance of our operations. We use Adjusted EBITDA internally as a measure to evaluate and compensate our personnel and management for their performance, and as a benchmark to evaluate our operating performance in comparison to our competitors. Management believes analysts and investors use Adjusted EBITDA as a supplemental measure to evaluate overall operating performance and facilitate comparisons with other wireless communications services companies because it is indicative of our ongoing operating performance and trends by excluding the impact of interest expense from financing, non-cash depreciation and amortization from capital investments, non-cash stock-based compensation, Merger-related costs including network decommissioning costs, incremental costs directly attributable to COVID-19 and impairment expense, as they are not indicative of our ongoing operating performance, as well as certain other nonrecurring income and expenses. Adjusted EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for income from operations, net income or any other measure of financial performance reported in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ( GAAP ). 46 Table of Contents The following table illustrates the calculation of Adjusted EBITDA and reconciles Adjusted EBITDA to Net income, which we consider to be the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure: Year Ended December 31, 2020 Versus 2019 2019 Versus 2018 (in millions) 2020 2019 2018 $ Change % Change $ Change % Change Net income $ 3,064 $ 3,468 $ 2,888 $ (404) (12) % $ 580 20 % Adjustments: Income from discontinued operations, net of tax (320) (320) NM NM Income from continuing operations 2,744 3,468 2,888 (724) (21) % 580 20 % Interest expense 2,483 727 835 1,756 242 % (108) (13) % Interest expense to affiliates 247 408 522 (161) (39) % (114) (22) % Interest income (29) (24) (19) (5) 21 % (5) 26 % Other expense, net 405 8 54 397 4,963 % (46) (85) % Income tax expense 786 1,135 1,029 (349) (31) % 106 10 % Operating income 6,636 5,722 5,309 914 16 % 413 8 % Depreciation and amortization 14,151 6,616 6,486 7,535 114 % 130 2 % Operating income from discontinued operations (1) 432 432 NM NM Stock-based compensation (2) 516 423 389 93 22 % 34 9 % Merger-related costs 1,915 620 196 1,295 209 % 424 216 % COVID-19-related costs 458 458 NM NM Impairment expense 418 418 NM NM Other, net (3) 31 2 18 29 1,450 % (16) (89) % Adjusted EBITDA $ 24,557 $ 13,383 $ 12,398 $ 11,174 83 % $ 985 8 % Net income margin (Net income divided by Service revenues) 6 % 10 % 9 % -400 bps 100 bps Adjusted EBITDA margin (Adjusted EBITDA divided by Service revenues) 49 % 39 % 38 % 1,000 bps 100 bps NM - Not Meaningful (1) Following the Prepaid Transaction, starting on July 1, 2020, we provide MVNO services to DISH. We have included the operating income from discontinued operations from April 1, 2020 through June 30, 2020, in our determination of Adjusted EBITDA to reflect contributions of the Prepaid Business that were replaced by the MVNO Agreement beginning on July 1, 2020 in order to enable management, analysts and investors to better assess ongoing operating performance and trends. (2) Stock-based compensation includes payroll tax impacts and may not agree to stock-based compensation expense in the consolidated financial statements. Additionally, certain stock-based compensation expenses associated with the Transactions have been included in Merger-related costs. (3) Other, net may not agree to the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income primarily due to certain non-routine operating activities, such as other special items that would not be expected to reoccur or are not reflective of T-Mobile ongoing operating performance, and are therefore excluded in Adjusted EBITDA. Adjusted EBITDA increased $11.2 billion, or 83%. The components comprising Adjusted EBITDA are discussed further above. The increase was primarily due to: Higher Total service revenues; and Higher Equipment revenues; partially offset by Higher Cost of services expenses, excluding Merger-related costs; Higher Cost of equipment sales; and Higher Selling, general and administrative expenses, excluding Merger-related costs and supplemental employee payroll, third-party commissions and cleaning-related COVID-19 costs. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash and cash equivalents and cash generated from operations, proceeds from issuance of long-term debt and common stock, financing leases, the sale of certain receivables, financing arrangements of vendor payables which effectively extend payment terms and the New Revolving Credit Facility (as defined below). In connection with the closing of the Merger on April 1, 2020, we incurred a substantial amount of additional third-party indebtedness which increased our future financial commitments, including aggregate interest payments. Further, the incurrence of additional indebtedness may inhibit our ability to incur new debt under the terms governing our existing and future indebtedness, which 47 Table of Contents may make it more difficult for us to incur new debt in the future to finance our business strategy. See Risk Factors - Risks Related to Our Indebtedness. Cash Flows The following is a condensed schedule of our cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018: Year Ended December 31, 2020 Versus 2019 2019 Versus 2018 (in millions) 2020 2019 2018 $ % $ % Net cash provided by operating activities $ 8,640 $ 6,824 $ 3,899 $ 1,816 27 % $ 2,925 75 % Net cash used in investing activities (12,715) (4,125) (579) (8,590) 208 % (3,546) 612 % Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 13,010 (2,374) (3,336) 15,384 (648) % 962 (29) % Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities increased $1.8 billion, or 27%, primarily from: Higher Net income, excluding non-cash income and expenses; partially offset by A $6.3 billion increase in net cash outflows from changes in working capital, primarily due to the one-time impact of $2.3 billion in gross payments for the settlement of interest rate swaps related to Merger financing for the year ended December 31, 2020, included in the use of cash from Other current and long-term liabilities, as well as higher use of cash from Accounts payable and accrued liabilities and Inventories. Net cash provided by operating activities includes $1.5 billion and $442 million in payments for Merger-related costs for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Net cash provided by operating activities includes $458 million in payments for supplemental employee payroll, third-party commissions and cleaning-related COVID-19 costs for the year ended December 31, 2020. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities increased $8.6 billion, or 208%. The use of cash was primarily from: $11.0 billion in Purchases of property and equipment, including capitalized interest, from network integration related to the Merger and the continued build-out of our nationwide 5G network; $5.0 billion in cash paid for the acquisition of Sprint, net of cash and restricted cash acquired; and $1.3 billion in Purchases of spectrum licenses and other intangible assets, including deposits; partially offset by $3.1 billion in Proceeds related to beneficial interests in securitization transactions; $1.2 billion in Proceeds from the divestiture of prepaid business; and $632 million related to derivative contracts under collateral exchange arrangements, for more information regarding these contracts, see Note 7 - Fair Value Measurements of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Financing Activities Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities increased $15.4 billion. The source of cash was primarily from: $35.3 billion in Proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt, net of discounts and issuance costs, driven primarily by the issuance of $31.8 billion in Senior Secured Notes and a draw of $4.0 billion on the New Secured Term Loan Facility; $18.7 billion in Proceeds from the issuance of short-term debt, net of discounts and issuance costs, driven by a $19.0 billion draw on the New Secured Bridge Loan Facility in connection with the closing of the Merger; and $304 million in net proceeds from the SoftBank Equity transaction, see Note 14 - SoftBank Equity Transaction of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements; partially offset by $20.4 billion in Repayments of long-term debt driven by the repayment of $5.3 billion aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes held by DT, our $4.0 billion Incremental Term Loan Facility with DT, our $4.0 billion New Secured Term Loan Facility, $2.3 billion of outstanding principal for the termination of the accounts receivable facility assumed in the Merger, $4.2 billion aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes held by third parties and $656 million 48 Table of Contents aggregate principal amount of our 3.360% Senior Secured Series 2016-1 A-1 Notes due 2021; $18.9 billion in Repayments of short-term debt, net of refunds for issuance costs, for the repayment of the $19.0 billion draw on the New Secured Bridge Loan Facility; and $1.0 billion in Repayments of financing lease obligations. Cash and Cash Equivalents As of December 31, 2020, our Cash and cash equivalents were $10.4 billion compared to $1.5 billion at December 31, 2019. Free Cash Flow Free Cash Flow represents Net cash provided by operating activities less cash payments for Purchases of property and equipment, including Proceeds from sales of tower sites and Proceeds related to beneficial interests in securitization transactions, less Cash payments for debt prepayment or debt extinguishment. Free Cash Flow and Free Cash Flow, excluding gross payments for the settlement of interest rate swaps, are non-GAAP financial measures utilized by our management, investors and analysts of our financial information to evaluate cash available to pay debt and provide further investment in the business. The table below provides reconciliations of Free Cash Flow and Free Cash Flow, excluding gross payments for the settlement of interest rate swaps to Net cash provided by operating activities, which we consider to be the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. Year Ended December 31, 2020 Versus 2019 2019 Versus 2018 (in millions) 2020 2019 2018 $ % $ Change % Change Net cash provided by operating activities $ 8,640 $ 6,824 $ 3,899 $ 1,816 27 % $ 2,925 75 % Cash purchases of property and equipment (11,034) (6,391) (5,541) (4,643) 73 % (850) 15 % Proceeds from sales of tower sites 38 (38) (100) % 38 NM Proceeds related to beneficial interests in securitization transactions 3,134 3,876 5,406 (742) (19) % (1,530) (28) % Cash payments for debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs (82) (28) (212) (54) 193 % 184 (87) % Free Cash Flow 658 4,319 3,552 (3,661) (85) % 767 22 % Gross cash paid for the settlement of interest rate swaps 2,343 2,343 NM NM Free Cash Flow, excluding gross payments for the settlement of interest rate swaps $ 3,001 $ 4,319 $ 3,552 $ (1,318) (31) % $ 767 22 % NM - Not Meaningful Free Cash Flow, excluding gross payments for the settlement of interest rate swaps related to Merger financing, decreased $1.3 billion, or 31%. The decrease was primarily impacted by the following: Higher Cash purchases of property and equipment, including capitalized interest of $440 million and $473 million for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, from network integration related to the Merger and the continued build-out of our nationwide 5G network; and Lower Proceeds related to our deferred purchase price from securitization transactions; partially offset by Higher Net cash provided by operating activities, as described above. Net cash provided by operating activities was impacted by the following: $1.5 billion and $442 million in payments for Merger-related costs for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. $458 million in payments for supplemental employee payroll, third-party commissions and cleaning-related COVID-19 costs for the year ended December 31, 2020. The calculation of Free Cash Flow, excluding gross payments for the settlement of interest rate swaps, excludes the one-time impact of gross payments for the settlement of interest rate swaps related to Merger financing of $2.3 billion. 49 Table of Contents Borrowing Capacity We maintain a financing arrangement with Deutsche Bank AG, which allows for up to $108 million in borrowings. Under the financing arrangement, we can effectively extend payment terms for invoices payable to certain vendors. As of December 31, 2020, there were no outstanding balances under such financing arrangement. We also maintain vendor financing arrangements primarily with our main network equipment suppliers. Under the respective agreements, we can obtain extended financing terms. Additionally, we assumed financial liabilities with certain vendors in connection with the closing of the Merger and incurred additional financial liabilities with DISH at the closing of the Prepaid Transaction. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we repaid $481 million associated with the vendor financing arrangements and other financial liabilities, of which $342 million was associated with financial liabilities assumed in connection with the closing of the Merger. These payments are included in Repayments of short-term debt for purchases of inventory, property and equipment and other financial liabilities, in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the outstanding balance under the vendor financing arrangements and other financial liabilities was $240 million and $25 million, respectively. On April 1, 2020, in connection with the closing of the Merger, T-Mobile USA and certain of its affiliates, as guarantors, entered into a Credit Agreement with certain financial institutions named therein, providing for a $4.0 billion secured term loan facility (the New Secured Term Loan Facility ) and a $4.0 billion revolving credit facility (the New Revolving Credit Facility ). On September 16, 2020, we increased the aggregate commitment under the New Revolving Credit Facility to $5.5 billion through an amendment to the Credit Agreement. On October 9, 2020, we repaid at par all of the outstanding amounts under, and terminated, our New Secured Term Loan Facility. As of December 31, 2020, there was no outstanding balance under the New Revolving Credit Facility. On October 30, 2020, we entered into a $5.0 billion senior secured term loan commitment with certain financial institutions. Subsequent to December 31, 2020, on January 14, 2021, we issued an aggregate of $3.0 billion in Senior Notes. The senior secured term loan commitment was reduced by an amount equal to the aggregate gross proceeds of the Senior Notes, which reduced the commitment to $2.0 billion. Up to $2.0 billion of loans under the commitment may be drawn at any time (subject to customary conditions precedent) through June 30, 2021. If drawn, the facility matures in 364 days with one six-month extension exercisable at our discretion. Proceeds may be used for general corporate purposes and will accrue interest at a rate of LIBOR plus a margin of 1.25% per annum. Debt Financing As of December 31, 2020, our total debt and financing lease liabilities were $73.6 billion, excluding our tower obligations, of which $66.5 billion was classified as long-term debt and $1.4 billion was classified as long-term financing lease liabilities. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we issued short- and long-term debt for net proceeds of $54.2 billion and redeemed and repaid short- and long-term debt with an aggregate principal amount of $39.9 billion. Additionally, in connection with the closing of the Merger, we assumed certain indebtedness of Sprint totaling $31.8 billion. On October 6, 2020, T-Mobile USA and certain of its affiliates, as guarantors, issued an aggregate of $4.0 billion in Senior Secured Notes bearing interest rates ranging from 2.050% to 3.300% and maturing in 2028 through 2051. On October 9, 2020, we used the net proceeds of $4.0 billion to repay at par all of the outstanding amounts under, and terminate, our New Secured Term Loan Facility. On October 28, 2020, T-Mobile USA and certain of its affiliates, as guarantors, issued an aggregate of $4.75 billion in Senior Secured Notes bearing interest rates ranging from 2.250% to 3.600% and maturing in 2031 through 2060. We intend to use the net proceeds of $4.6 billion for general corporate purposes, which may include among other things, acquisitions of additional spectrum and refinancing existing indebtedness on an ongoing basis. 50 Table of Contents On October 30, 2020, we entered into a $5.0 billion senior secured term loan commitment with certain financial institutions. Subsequent to December 31, 2020, on January 14, 2021, T-Mobile USA issued $1.0 billion of 2.250% Senior Notes due 2026, $1.0 billion of 2.625% Senior Notes due 2029, and $1.0 billion of 2.875% Senior Notes due 2031. We intend to use the net proceeds of $3.0 billion for general corporate purposes, which may include among other things, financing acquisitions of additional spectrum and refinancing existing indebtedness on an ongoing basis. A portion of the senior secured term loan commitments were reduced by an amount equal to the aggregate gross proceeds of the Senior Notes, which reduced the commitment to $2.0 billion. Up to $2.0 billion of loans under the commitment may be drawn at any time (subject to customary conditions precedent) through June 30, 2021. If drawn, the facility matures in 364 days with one six-month extension exercisable at our discretion. Proceeds may be used for general corporate purposes and will accrue interest at a rate of LIBOR plus a margin of 1.25% per annum. For more information regarding our debt financing transactions, see Note 8 - Debt of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Spectrum Auction In March 2020, the FCC announced that we were the winning bidder of 2,384 licenses in Auction 103 (37/39 GHz and 47 GHz spectrum bands) for an aggregate price of $873 million, net of an incentive payment of $59 million. At the inception of Auction 103 in October 2019, we deposited $82 million with the FCC. Upon conclusion of Auction 103 in March 2020, we made a down payment of $93 million for the purchase price of the licenses won in the auction. On April 8, 2020, we paid the FCC the remaining $698 million of the purchase price for the licenses won in the auction. Prior to the Merger, the FCC announced that Sprint was the winning bidder of 127 licenses in Auction 103 (37/39 GHz and 47 GHz spectrum bands). All payments related to the licenses won were made by Sprint prior the Merger. For more information regarding our spectrum licenses, see Note 6 - Goodwill, Spectrum License Transactions and Other Intangible Assets of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Interest Rate Lock Derivatives In April 2020, in connection with the issuance of an aggregate of $19.0 billion in Senior Secured Notes, we terminated our interest rate lock derivative. At the time of termination, the interest rate lock derivatives were a liability of $2.3 billion, of which $1.2 billion was cash collateralized. Consequently, the net cash required to settle the interest rate lock derivatives was an additional $1.1 billion and was paid at termination. For more information regarding the termination of our interest rate lock derivative, see Note 7 - Fair Value Measurements of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Future Sources and Uses of Liquidity We may seek additional sources of liquidity, including through the issuance of additional long-term debt in 2021, to continue to opportunistically acquire spectrum licenses or other assets in private party transactions or for the refinancing of existing long-term debt on an opportunistic basis. Excluding liquidity that could be needed for spectrum acquisitions, or for other assets, we expect our principal sources of funding to be sufficient to meet our anticipated liquidity needs for business operations for the next 12 months as well as our longer-term liquidity needs. Our intended use of any such funds is for general corporate purposes, including for capital expenditures, spectrum purchases, opportunistic investments and acquisitions, redemption of high yield callable debt and the execution of our integration plan. We determine future liquidity requirements, for both operations and capital expenditures, based in large part upon projected financial and operating performance, and opportunities to acquire additional spectrum. We regularly review and update these projections for changes in current and projected financial and operating results, general economic conditions, the competitive landscape and other factors. We have incurred, and will incur, substantial expenses as a result of completing the Transactions, the Divestiture Transaction and compliance with the Government Commitments, and we are also expected to incur substantial restructuring expenses in connection with integrating and coordinating T-Mobile and Sprint businesses, operations, policies and procedures. While we have assumed that a certain level of Merger-related expenses will be incurred, factors beyond our control, including required consultation and negotiation with certain counterparties, could affect the total amount or the timing of these expenses. These expenses could exceed the costs historically borne by us and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. There are a number of additional risks and uncertainties, including those due to the impact of the Pandemic, that could cause our financial and operating results and capital requirements to differ materially from our projections, which could cause future liquidity to differ materially from our assessment. See Risk Factors - Risk Related to our 51 Table of Contents Business and Wireless Industry - The Pandemic has adversely affected, and will continue to adversely affect, our business, liquidity, financial condition, and operating results. The indentures, supplemental indentures and credit agreements governing our long-term debt to affiliates and third parties, excluding financing leases, contain covenants that, among other things, limit the ability of the Issuers or borrowers and the Guarantor Subsidiaries to incur more debt, pay dividends and make distributions on our common stock, make certain investments, repurchase stock, create liens or other encumbrances, enter into transactions with affiliates, enter into transactions that restrict dividends or distributions from subsidiaries, and merge, consolidate or sell, or otherwise dispose of, substantially all of their assets. Certain provisions of each of the credit agreements, indentures and supplemental indentures relating to the long-term debt to affiliates and third parties restrict the ability of the Issuers or borrowers to loan funds or make payments to Parent. However, the Issuers or borrowers are allowed to make certain permitted payments to Parent under the terms of each of the credit agreements, indentures and supplemental indentures relating to the long-term debt to affiliates and third parties. We were in compliance with all restrictive debt covenants as of December 31, 2020. The Merger In connection with the closing of the Merger, on April 1, 2020, we assumed Sprint liabilities, which include accounts payable and accrued liabilities, short-term debt, operating and financing lease liabilities, net pension plan liabilities, deferred tax liabilities and long-term debt with an aggregate fair value of $31.8 billion. For more information regarding the Merger, see Note 2 Business Combination of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Shentel Wireless Asset Acquisition Sprint PCS (specifically Sprint Spectrum L.P.) is party to a variety of publicly filed agreements with Shenandoah Personal Communications Company LLC ( Shentel ), pursuant to which Shentel is the exclusive provider of Sprint PCS wireless mobility communications network products in certain parts of Maryland, North Carolina, Virginia, West Virginia, Kentucky, Ohio and Pennsylvania. Pursuant to one such agreement, the Sprint PCS Management Agreement, dated November 5, 1999 (as amended, supplemented and modified from time to time, the Management Agreement ), Sprint PCS was granted an option to purchase Shentel wireless telecommunications assets used to provide services pursuant to the Management Agreement. On August 26, 2020, Sprint, now our indirect subsidiary, on behalf of and as the direct or indirect owner of Sprint PCS, exercised its option by delivering a binding notice of exercise to Shentel. T-Mobile exercise of its option triggered a requirement for the parties to engage three independent valuation providers (the Valuation Providers ) to calculate the entire business value (the Entire Business Value ) of such wireless telecommunications assets, pursuant to a formula and valuation process prescribed in the Management Agreement. Subsequent to December 31, 2020, on February 1, 2021, in accordance with the Management Agreement and other agreed-upon terms, the Valuation Providers determined and calculated the Entire Business Value of Shentel wireless telecommunications assets used to provide services pursuant to the Management Agreement to be $2.1 billion, and correspondingly, the base purchase price for such wireless telecommunications assets shall be ninety percent (90%) of that Entire Business Value amount ($1.9 billion), subject to certain other purchase price adjustments prescribed by the Management Agreement and such additional purchase price adjustments agreed by the parties. The parties are negotiating the remaining outstanding terms of a definitive agreement to govern the purchase of Shentel wireless telecommunication assets and expect the transaction to close in the second quarter of 2021 after satisfying customary conditions to closing. Financing Lease Facilities We have entered into uncommitted financing lease facilities with certain partners that provide us with the ability to enter into financing leases for network equipment and services. As of December 31, 2020, we have committed to $5.1 billion of financing leases under these financing lease facilities, of which $1.2 billion was executed during the year ended December 31, 2020. We expect to enter into up to an additional $1.2 billion in financing lease commitments during the year ending December 31, 2021. Capital Expenditures Our liquidity requirements have been driven primarily by capital expenditures for spectrum licenses, the construction, expansion and upgrading of our network infrastructure and the integration of the networks, spectrum, technology, personnel, customer base and business practices of T-Mobile and Sprint. Property and equipment capital expenditures primarily relate to the integration of our acquired Sprint 2.5 GHz spectrum licenses and existing 600 MHz spectrum licenses as we build out our 52 Table of Contents nationwide 5G network. We expect the majority of our remaining capital expenditures related to these efforts to occur in 2021 and 2022, after which we expect capital expenditure requirements to reduce. We expect cash purchases of property and equipment to range from $11.7 billion to $12.0 billion in 2021. For more information regarding our property and equipment and spectrum licenses, see Note 5 Property and Equipment and Note 6 - Goodwill, Spectrum License Transactions and Other Intangible Assets of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, respectively. Dividends We have never paid or declared any cash dividends on our common stock, and we do not intend to declare or pay any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Our credit facilities and the indentures and supplemental indentures governing our long-term debt to affiliates and third parties, excluding financing leases, contain covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to declare or pay dividends on our common stock. Contractual Obligations In connection with the regulatory approvals of the Transactions, we made commitments to various state and federal agencies, including the U.S. Department of Justice (the DOJ ) and FCC. For more information regarding these commitments, see Note 1 8 Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The contractual commitments and purchase obligations of Sprint were assumed upon the completion of the Merger. These contractual commitments and purchase obligations are primarily commitments to purchase wireless devices, network services, equipment, software, marketing sponsorship agreements and other items in the ordinary course of business. For more information regarding our contractual commitments and purchase obligations, see Note 1 8 - Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations and borrowings as of December 31, 2020, and the timing and effect that such commitments are expected to have on our liquidity and capital requirements in future periods: (in millions) Less Than 1 Year 1 - 3 Years 4 - 5 Years More Than 5 Years Total Long-term debt (1) $ 4,486 $ 11,960 $ 9,891 $ 43,052 $ 69,389 Interest on long-term debt 3,477 5,938 4,317 13,817 27,549 Financing lease liabilities, including imputed interest 1,121 1,217 229 61 2,628 Tower obligations (2) 397 716 598 624 2,335 Operating lease liabilities, including imputed interest 4,903 8,113 6,146 18,940 38,102 Purchase obligations (3) 5,033 4,462 2,392 1,723 13,610 Spectrum leases and service credits (4) 338 675 594 5,077 6,684 Total contractual obligations $ 19,755 $ 33,081 $ 24,167 $ 83,294 $ 160,297 (1) Represents principal amounts of long-term debt to affiliates and third parties at maturity, excluding unamortized premiums, discounts, debt issuance costs, consent fees, and financing lease obligations. See Note 8 Debt of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (2) Future minimum payments, including principal and interest payments, related to the tower obligations. See Note 9 Tower Obligations of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (3) The minimum commitment for certain obligations is based on termination penalties that could be paid to exit the contracts. Termination penalties are included in the above table as payments due as of the earliest we could exit the contract, typically in less than one year. For certain contracts that include fixed volume purchase commitments and fixed prices for various products, the purchase obligations are calculated using fixed volumes and contractually fixed prices for the products that are expected to be purchased. This table does not include open purchase orders as of December 31, 2020 under normal business purposes. See Note 1 8 Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (4) Spectrum lease agreements are typically for five to 10 years with automatic renewal provisions, bringing the total term of the agreements up to 30 years. Certain commitments and obligations are included in the table based on the year of required payment or an estimate of the year of payment. Other long-term liabilities have been omitted from the table above due to the uncertainty of the timing of payments, combined with the lack of historical trends to predict future payments. See Note 20 Additional Financial Information of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 53 Table of Contents The purchase obligations reflected in the table above are primarily commitments to purchase spectrum licenses, wireless devices, network services, equipment, software, marketing sponsorship agreements and other items in the ordinary course of business. These amounts do not represent our entire anticipated purchases in the future, but represent only those items for which we are contractually committed. Where we are committed to make a minimum payment to the supplier regardless of whether we take delivery, we have included only that minimum payment as a purchase obligation. The acquisition of spectrum licenses is subject to regulatory approval and other customary closing conditions. Related Party Transactions SoftBank On February 20, 2020, T-Mobile, SoftBank and DT entered into a Letter Agreement as described in Note 2 - Business Combination . The Letter Agreement requires T-Mobile to issue to SoftBank 48,751,557 shares of T-Mobile common stock, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Letter Agreement, for no additional consideration, if certain conditions are met. On June 22, 2020, we entered into a Master Framework Agreement and related transactions with SoftBank to facilitate the SoftBank Monetization as described in Note 14 - SoftBank Equity Transaction of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. As of December 31, 2020, DT and SoftBank held, directly or indirectly, approximately 43.4% and 8.6%, respectively, of our outstanding common stock, with the remaining approximately 48.0% of our outstanding common stock held by other stockholders. As a result of the Proxy Agreements, DT has voting control as of December 31, 2020, over approximately 52.3% of the outstanding T-Mobile common stock. In addition, as provided for in the Master Framework Agreement, DT also holds certain call options over approximately 101.5 million shares of our common stock held by SoftBank Group Capital Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of SoftBank. On July 27, 2020, in connection with the SoftBank Monetization, the Rights Offering exercise period closed, and on August 3, 2020, the Rights Offering closed, resulting in the sale of 19,750,000 shares of our common stock. For more information regarding our related party transactions with SoftBank, see Note 2 - Business Combination and Note 14 - SoftBank Equity Transaction of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Marcelo Claure On June 22, 2020, we entered into a Master Framework Agreement which provided for the purchase of shares of our common stock by Marcelo Claure, a member of our board of directors, from us at a specified price. For more information regarding our related party transactions with Marcelo Claure, see Note 14 - SoftBank Equity Transaction of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Brightstar We had arrangements with Brightstar, a subsidiary of SoftBank, whereby Brightstar provided supply chain and inventory management services to us in our indirect channels. For more information regarding our related party transactions with Brightstar, see Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 20 - Additional Financial Information of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Deutsche Telekom We have related party transactions associated with DT or its affiliates in the ordinary course of business, including intercompany servicing and licensing. For more information regarding these transactions, see Note 20 - Additional Financial Information of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. On April 1, 2020, in connection with the closing of the Merger, we repaid our $4.0 billion Incremental Term Loan Facility with DT and repurchased from DT $4.0 billion of indebtedness to affiliates, consisting of $2.0 billion of 5.300% Senior Notes due 54 Table of Contents 2021 and $2.0 billion of 6.000% Senior Notes due 2024 as well as made an additional payment for requisite consents to DT of $13 million. On July 4, 2020, we redeemed $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of our 5.125% Senior Notes to affiliates due 2021. For more information regarding our related party debt transactions, see Note 8 - Debt of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Disclosure of Iranian Activities under Section 13(r) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 added Section 13(r) to the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ( Exchange Act ). Section 13(r) requires an issuer to disclose in its annual or quarterly reports, as applicable, whether it or any of its affiliates knowingly engaged in certain activities, transactions or dealings relating to Iran or with designated natural persons or entities involved in terrorism or the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Disclosure is required even where the activities, transactions or dealings are conducted outside the U.S. by non-U.S. affiliates in compliance with applicable law, and whether or not the activities are sanctionable under U.S. law. As of the date of this report, we are not aware of any activity, transaction or dealing by us or any of our affiliates for the year ended December 31, 2020, that requires disclosure in this report under Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act, except as set forth below with respect to affiliates that we do not control and that are our affiliates solely due to their common control with either DT or SoftBank. We have relied upon DT and SoftBank for information regarding their respective activities, transactions and dealings. DT, through certain of its non-U.S. subsidiaries, is party to roaming and interconnect agreements with the following mobile and fixed line telecommunication providers in Iran, some of which are or may be government-controlled entities: Irancell Telecommunications Services Company, Telecommunication Kish Company, Mobile Telecommunication Company of Iran, and Telecommunication Infrastructure Company of Iran. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2020, DT, through certain of its non-U.S. subsidiaries, provided basic telecommunications services to three customers in Germany identified on the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List maintained by the U.S. Department of Treasury Office of Foreign Assets Control: Bank Melli, Bank Sepah, and Europ isch-Iranische Handelsbank. These services have been terminated or are in the process of being terminated. For the year ended December 31, 2020, gross revenues of all DT affiliates generated by roaming and interconnection traffic and telecommunications services with the Iranian parties identified herein were less than $0.1 million, and the estimated net profits were less than $0.1 million. In addition, DT, through certain of its non-U.S. subsidiaries that operate a fixed-line network in their respective European home countries (in particular Germany), provides telecommunications services in the ordinary course of business to the Embassy of Iran in those European countries. Gross revenues and net profits recorded from these activities for the year ended December 31, 2020 were less than $0.1 million. We understand that DT intends to continue these activities. Separately, SoftBank, through one of its non-U.S. subsidiaries, provides roaming services in Iran through Irancell Telecommunications Services Company. During the nine months from the acquisition of Sprint on April 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020, SoftBank had no gross revenues from such services and no net profit was generated. We understand that the SoftBank subsidiary intends to continue such services. This subsidiary also provides telecommunications services in the ordinary course of business to accounts affiliated with the Embassy of Iran in Japan. During the nine months from the acquisition of Sprint on April 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020, SoftBank estimates that gross revenues and net profit generated by such services were both under $0.1 million. We understand that the SoftBank subsidiary is obligated under contract and intends to continue such services. In addition, SoftBank, through one of its non-U.S. indirect subsidiaries, provides office supplies to the Embassy of Iran in Japan. SoftBank estimates that gross revenue and net profit generated by such services during the nine months from the acquisition of Sprint on April 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020, were both under $0.1 million. We understand that the SoftBank subsidiary intends to continue such activities. 55 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have arrangements, as amended from time to time, to sell certain EIP accounts receivable and service accounts receivable on a revolving basis as a source of liquidity. As of December 31, 2020, we derecognized net receivables of $2.5 billion upon sale through these arrangements. For more information regarding these off-balance sheet arrangements, see Note 4 Sales of Certain Receivables of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our significant accounting policies are fundamental to understanding our results of operations and financial condition as they require that we use estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets or liabilities and financial results. See Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Three of these policies, discussed below, are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Management and the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors have reviewed and approved these critical accounting policies. Depreciation Our property and equipment balance represents a significant component of our consolidated assets. We record property and equipment at cost, and we generally depreciate property and equipment on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the assets. If all other factors were to remain unchanged, we expect that a one-year increase in the useful lives of our in-service property and equipment, exclusive of leased devices, would have resulted in a decrease of approximately $2.9 billion in our 2020 depreciation expense and that a one-year decrease in the useful life would have resulted in an increase of approximately $3.5 billion in our 2020 depreciation expense. See Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 5 Property and Equipment of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding depreciation of assets, including management underlying estimates of useful lives. Evaluation of Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets for Impairment Goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets, such as our spectrum licenses, are not amortized but tested for potential impairment annually, as of December 31, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate such assets might be impaired. We test goodwill on a reporting unit basis by comparing the estimated fair value of each reporting unit to its book value. If the fair value exceeds the book value, then no impairment is measured. We have identified two reporting units for which discrete financial information is available and results are regularly reviewed by management: wireless and Layer3. The Layer3 reporting unit consists of the assets and liabilities of Layer3 TV, Inc., which was acquired in January 2018. The services provided by the Layer3 reporting unit are branded TVision TM . The wireless reporting unit consists of the remaining assets and liabilities of T-Mobile US, Inc., excluding Layer3 TV, Inc. We separately evaluate these reporting units for impairment. When assessing goodwill for impairment we may elect to first perform a qualitative assessment for a reporting unit to determine if the quantitative impairment test is necessary. If we do not perform a qualitative assessment, or if the qualitative assessment indicates it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, we perform a quantitative test. We recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit fair value; however, the loss recognized would not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. We employed a qualitative approach to assess the wireless reporting unit. The fair value of the wireless reporting unit is determined using a market approach, which is based on market capitalization. We recognize market capitalization is subject to volatility and will monitor changes in market capitalization to determine whether declines, if any, necessitate an interim impairment review. In the event market capitalization does decline below its book value, we will consider the length, severity and reasons for the decline when assessing whether potential impairment exists, including considering whether a control premium should be added to the market capitalization. We believe short-term fluctuations in share price may not necessarily reflect the underlying 56 Table of Contents aggregate fair value. No events or change in circumstances have occurred that indicate the fair value of the wireless reporting unit may be below its carrying amount at December 31, 2020. Concurrent with the consummation of the Merger, management also revisited the plans for our TVision TM services offering and the integration of this offering with the Sprint customer base. Additionally, we expect our significantly enhanced spectrum position following the Merger will allow us to accelerate our in-home broadband internet service strategy. The enhanced in-home broadband opportunity, along with the acquisition of certain content rights, created a strategic shift in our TVision TM services offering allowing us the ability to develop a video product which will be complementary to the in-home broadband offering. Based on these events and changes in circumstances, we determined that recoverability of the carrying amount of goodwill for the Layer3 reporting unit should be evaluated for impairment. We employed a quantitative approach to assess the Layer3 reporting unit. The fair value of the Layer3 reporting unit was determined using an income approach, which was based on estimated discounted future cash flows. We made estimates and assumptions regarding future cash flows, discount rates and long-term growth rates to determine the reporting unit estimated fair value. The key assumptions used were as follows: Expected cash flows underlying the TVision TM business plan for the periods 2020 through 2025, which took into account assumptions for a delayed launch, estimates of subscribers for TVision TM services, average revenue and content cost per subscriber, operating costs and capital expenditures; Cash flows beyond 2025 were projected to grow at a long-term growth rate estimated at 3%. Estimating a long-term growth rate requires significant judgment about future business strategies as well as micro- and macro-economic environments that are inherently uncertain; and We used a discount rate of 30% to risk adjust the cash flow projections in determining the estimated fair value. The carrying value of the Layer3 reporting unit exceeded its estimated fair value as of June 30, 2020. Accordingly, during the year ended December 31, 2020, we recorded an impairment loss of $218 million, which is included in Impairment expense in our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. This impairment reduced the goodwill assigned to the Layer3 reporting unit to zero. We test spectrum licenses for impairment on an aggregate basis, consistent with our management of the overall business at a national level. We may elect to first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of an intangible asset is less than its carrying value. If we do not perform the qualitative assessment, or if the qualitative assessment indicates it is more likely than not that the fair value of the intangible asset is less than its carrying amount, we calculate the estimated fair value of the intangible asset. If the estimated fair value of the spectrum licenses is lower than their carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognized. We estimate fair value using the Greenfield methodology, which is an income approach, to estimate the price at which an orderly transaction to sell the asset would take place between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions. The Greenfield methodology values the spectrum licenses by calculating the cash flow generating potential of a hypothetical start-up company that goes into business with no assets except the asset to be valued (in this case, spectrum licenses) and makes investments required to build an operation comparable to current use. The value of the spectrum licenses can be considered as equal to the present value of the cash flows of this hypothetical start-up company. We base the assumptions underlying the Greenfield methodology on a combination of market participant data and our historical results, trends and business plans. Future cash flows in the Greenfield methodology are based on estimates and assumptions of market participant revenues, EBITDA margin, network build-out period and a long-term growth rate for a market participant. The cash flows are discounted using a weighted average cost of capital. The valuation approaches utilized to estimate fair value for the purposes of the impairment tests of goodwill and spectrum licenses require the use of assumptions and estimates, which involve a degree of uncertainty. If actual results or future expectations are not consistent with the assumptions, this may result in the recording of significant impairment charges on goodwill or spectrum licenses. The most significant assumptions within the valuation models are the discount rate, revenues, EBITDA margins, capital expenditures and long-term growth rate. For more information regarding our impairment assessments, see Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 6 Goodwill, Spectrum License Transactions and Other Intangible Assets of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 57 Table of Contents Income Taxes Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized based on temporary differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when these differences are realized. A valuation allowance is recorded when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. The ultimate realization of a deferred tax asset depends on the ability to generate sufficient taxable income of the appropriate character and in the appropriate taxing jurisdictions within the carryforward periods available. We account for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in the financial statements in accordance with the accounting guidance for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. We assess whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination based on the technical merits of the position and adjust the unrecognized tax benefits in light of changes in facts and circumstances, such as changes in tax law, interactions with taxing authorities and developments in case law. Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted For information regarding recently issued accounting standards, see Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk We are exposed to economic risks in the normal course of business, primarily from changes in interest rates, including changes in investment yields and changes in spreads due to credit risk and other factors. These risks, along with other business risks, impact our cost of capital. Our policy is to manage exposure related to fluctuations in interest rates in order to manage capital costs, control financial risks and maintain financial flexibility over the long term. We have established interest rate risk limits that are closely monitored by measuring interest rate sensitivities of our debt portfolio. We do not foresee significant changes in the strategies used to manage market risk in the near future. Certain potential sources of financing available to us, including our senior secured term loan commitment with certain financial institutions and New Revolving Credit Facility, bear interest that is indexed to LIBOR plus a fixed margin. As of December 31, 2020, we did not have outstanding balances under these facilities. See Note 8 - Debt of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 58 Index for Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
