CIK: 1468174
Company Name: HYATT HOTELS CORP
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2017-02-16
Accession Number: 0001468174-17-000010


Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 6, "Selected Financial Data" and Part IV, Item 15, "Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule Consolidated Financial Statements." In addition to historical data, this discussion contains forward-looking statements about our business, operations and financial performance based on current expectations that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual results may differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including but not limited to those discussed in "Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" and Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors" included elsewhere in this annual report. Overview At December 31, 2016 , our worldwide hotel portfolio consisted of 657 hotels ( 171,133 rooms), including: 281 managed properties ( 92,021 rooms), all of which we operate under management agreements with third-party property owners; 304 franchised properties ( 50,417 rooms), all of which are owned by third parties that have franchise agreements with us and are operated by third parties; 35 owned properties ( 18,013 rooms) (including 1 consolidated hospitality venture), 1 capital leased property ( 171 rooms) and 7 operating leased properties ( 2,411 rooms), all of which we manage; and 23 managed properties and 6 franchised properties owned or leased by unconsolidated hospitality ventures ( 8,100 rooms). Our worldwide property portfolio also includes: 6 all inclusive resorts ( 2,401 rooms), all of which are owned and operated by an unconsolidated hospitality venture that has franchise agreements with us; 16 vacation ownership properties ( 1,038 units), all of which are licensed by ILG under the Hyatt Residence Club brand and operated by third parties, including ILG and its affiliates; and 19 residential properties ( 2,546 units), which consist of branded residences and serviced apartments. We manage all of the serviced apartments and those branded residential units that participate in a rental program with an adjacent Hyatt-branded hotel. We believe our business model allows us to pursue more diversified revenue and income streams that balance both the advantages and risks associated with these lines of business. Our expertise and experience in each of these areas gives us the flexibility to evaluate growth opportunities across these lines of business. Growth in the number of management and franchise agreements and earnings therefrom typically results in higher overall returns on invested capital because the capital investment under a typical management or franchise agreement is not significant. The capital required to build and maintain hotels we manage or franchise for third-party owners is typically provided by the owner of the respective property with minimal capital required by us as the manager or franchisor. During periods of increasing demand we do not share fully in the incremental profits of hotel operations for hotels we manage for third-party owners as our fee arrangements generally include a base amount calculated using the revenue from the subject hotel and an incentive fee that is, typically, a percentage of hotel profits that is usually less than 20%, with certain financial thresholds to be satisfied, with the actual level depending on the structure and terms of the management agreement. We do not share in the benefits of increases in profits from franchised properties because franchisees pay us an initial application fee and ongoing royalty fees that are calculated as a percentage of gross room revenues, and also at times as a percentage of food and beverage revenues, with no fees based on profits. Disputes or disruptions may arise with third-party owners of hotels we manage, franchise or license and these disputes can result in termination of the relevant agreement. With respect to property ownership, we believe ownership of selected hotels in key markets enhances our ability to control our brand presence in these markets. Ownership of hotels allows us to capture the full benefit of increases in operating profits during periods of increasing demand and room rates. The cost structure of a typical hotel is more fixed than variable, so as demand and room rates increase over time, the pace of increase in operating profits typically is higher than the pace of increase of revenues. Hotel ownership is, however, more capital intensive than managing hotels for third-party owners, as we are responsible for the costs and all capital expenditures for our owned hotels. The profits realized in our owned and leased hotels segment are generally more significantly affected by economic downturns and declines in revenues than the results of our management and franchising segments. This is because we absorb the full impact of declining profits for our owned and leased hotels whereas our management and franchise fees do not have the same level of downside exposure to declining hotel profitability. See also " Principal Factors Affecting Our Results of Operations Expenses Factors Affecting Our Costs and Expenses Fixed nature of expenses." and Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business We are exposed to 57 Table of Contents the risks resulting from significant investments in owned and leased real estate, which could increase our costs, reduce our profits, limit our ability to respond to market conditions or restrict our growth strategy." For the years ended December 31, 2016 , December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 , 80.6% , 80.7% , and 78.7% of our revenues were derived from operations in the United States, respectively. At December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 , 78.4% and 75.7% of our long-lived assets were located in the United States, respectively. We report our consolidated operations in U.S. dollars. Amounts are reported in millions, unless otherwise noted. Constant currency disclosures throughout Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations are non-GAAP measures. See " Key Business Metrics Evaluated by Management Constant dollar currency" below for further discussion of constant currency disclosures. We manage our business within four reportable segments, see Part IV, Item 15, "Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements." Key Business Metrics Evaluated by Management Revenues We primarily derive our revenues from hotel operations, management and franchise fees, other revenues from managed properties and license fees from vacation ownership properties. Management uses revenues to assess the overall performance of our business and analyze trends such as consumer demand, brand preference and competition. For a detailed discussion of the factors that affect our revenues, see " Principal Factors Affecting Our Results of Operations Revenues." Net Income Attributable to Hyatt Hotels Corporation Net income attributable to Hyatt Hotels Corporation represents the total earnings or profits generated by our business. Management uses net income to analyze the performance of our business on a consolidated basis. Adjusted Earnings Before Interest Expense, Taxes, Depreciation, and Amortization ("Adjusted EBITDA") and EBITDA We use the terms Adjusted EBITDA and EBITDA throughout this annual report. Adjusted EBITDA and EBITDA, as we define them, are non-GAAP measures (as defined below). We define consolidated Adjusted EBITDA as net income attributable to Hyatt Hotels Corporation plus our pro rata share of unconsolidated hospitality ventures Adjusted EBITDA based on our ownership percentage of each venture, adjusted to exclude the following items: interest expense; provision for income taxes; depreciation and amortization; equity earnings (losses) from unconsolidated hospitality ventures; stock-based compensation expense; gains (losses) on sales of real estate and other; asset impairments; other income (loss), net; and net income attributable to noncontrolling interests. Effective January 1, 2016, our definitions of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted selling, general, and administrative expenses, as defined below, have been updated to exclude stock-based compensation expense, to facilitate comparison with our competitors. We have applied this change in the definition of Adjusted EBITDA to 2015 and 2014 historical results to allow for comparability between the periods presented. We calculate consolidated Adjusted EBITDA by adding the Adjusted EBITDA of each of our reportable segments to corporate and other Adjusted EBITDA. See " Results of Operations." Our board of directors and executive management team focus on Adjusted EBITDA as a key performance and compensation measure both on a segment and on a consolidated basis. Adjusted EBITDA assists us in comparing our performance over various reporting periods on a consistent basis because it removes from our operating results the impact of items that do not reflect our core operations both on a segment and on a consolidated basis. Our President and Chief Executive Officer, who is our chief operating decision maker, also evaluates the performance of each of our reportable segments and determines how to allocate resources to those segments, in significant part, by assessing the Adjusted EBITDA of each segment. In addition, the compensation committee of our board of directors determines the annual variable compensation for 58 Table of Contents certain members of our management based in part on consolidated Adjusted EBITDA, segment Adjusted EBITDA or some combination of both. We believe Adjusted EBITDA is useful to investors because it provides investors the same information we use internally for purposes of assessing our operating performance and making selected compensation decisions. Adjusted EBITDA and EBITDA are not substitutes for net income attributable to Hyatt Hotels Corporation, net income or any other measure prescribed by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). There are limitations to using non-GAAP measures such as Adjusted EBITDA and EBITDA. Although we believe Adjusted EBITDA can make an evaluation of our operating performance more consistent because it removes items that do not reflect our core operations, other companies in our industry may define Adjusted EBITDA differently than we do. As a result, it may be difficult to use Adjusted EBITDA or similarly named non-GAAP measures that other companies may use to compare the performance of those companies to our performance. Because of these limitations, Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered as a measure of the income generated by our business. Our management compensates for these limitations by reference to our GAAP results and using Adjusted EBITDA supplementally. See our consolidated statements of income in our consolidated financial statements included in Part IV, Item 15, "Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule Consolidated Financial Statements". For a reconciliation of net income attributable to Hyatt Hotels Corporation to EBITDA and a reconciliation of EBITDA to consolidated Adjusted EBITDA, see " Results of Operations." Adjusted selling, general, and administrative expenses Adjusted selling, general, and administrative expenses, as we define it, is a non-GAAP measure. Adjusted selling, general, and administrative expenses excludes the impact of expenses related to benefit programs funded through rabbi trusts and stock-based compensation expense. Adjusted selling, general, and administrative expenses assist us in comparing our performance over various reporting periods on a consistent basis since it removes from our operating results the impact of items that do not reflect our core operations, both on a segment and consolidated basis. See " Results of Operations" for a reconciliation of selling, general, and administrative expenses to Adjusted selling, general, and administrative expenses. Constant dollar currency We report the results of our operations both on an as reported basis, as well as on a constant dollar basis. Constant dollar currency, which is a non-GAAP measure, excludes the effects of movements in foreign currency exchange rates between comparative periods. We believe constant dollar analysis provides valuable information regarding our results as it removes currency fluctuations from our operating results. We calculate constant dollar currency by restating prior-period local currency financial results at the current period exchange rates. These adjusted amounts are then compared to our current period reported amounts to provide operationally driven variances in our results. Revenue per Available Room (RevPAR) RevPAR is the product of ADR and the average daily occupancy percentage. RevPAR does not include non-room revenues, which consist of ancillary revenues generated by a hotel property, such as food and beverage, parking, telephone and other guest service revenues. Our management uses RevPAR to identify trend information with respect to room revenues from comparable properties and to evaluate hotel performance on a regional and segment basis. RevPAR is a commonly used performance measure in the industry. RevPAR changes driven predominantly by changes in occupancy have different implications for overall revenue levels and incremental profitability than do changes driven predominantly by changes in average room rates. For example, increases in occupancy at a hotel would lead to increases in room revenues and additional variable operating costs (including housekeeping services, utilities and room amenity costs), and could also result in increased ancillary revenues (including food and beverage). In contrast, changes in average room rates typically have a greater impact on margins and profitability as there is no substantial effect on variable costs. Average Daily Rate ADR represents hotel room revenues, divided by the total number of rooms sold in a given period. ADR measures average room price attained by a hotel and ADR trends provide useful information concerning the pricing environment and the nature of the customer base of a hotel or group of hotels. ADR is a commonly used performance measure in the industry, and we use ADR to assess the pricing levels we are able to generate by customer group, as changes in rates have a different effect on overall revenues and incremental profitability than changes in occupancy, as described above. 59 Table of Contents Occupancy Occupancy represents the total number of rooms sold divided by the total number of rooms available at a hotel or group of hotels. Occupancy measures the utilization of our hotels' available capacity. Management uses occupancy to gauge demand at a specific hotel or group of hotels in a given period. Occupancy levels also help us determine achievable ADR levels as demand for hotel rooms increases or decreases. Comparable Hotels "Comparable systemwide hotels" represents all properties we manage or franchise (including owned and leased properties) and that are operated for the entirety of the periods being compared and that have not sustained substantial damage, business interruption or undergone large scale renovations during the periods being compared or for which comparable results are not available. We may use variations of comparable systemwide hotels to specifically refer to comparable systemwide Americas full service or select service hotels for those properties that we manage or franchise within the Americas management and franchising segment, comparable systemwide ASPAC full service hotels for those properties that we manage or franchise within the ASPAC management and franchising segment, or comparable systemwide EAME/SW Asia full service or select service hotels for those properties that we manage or franchise within the EAME/SW Asia management and franchising segment. "Comparable operated hotels" is defined the same as "comparable systemwide hotels" with the exception that it is limited to only those hotels we manage or operate and excludes hotels we franchise. "Comparable owned and leased hotels" represents all properties we own or lease and that are operated and consolidated for the entirety of the periods being compared and have not sustained substantial damage, business interruption or undergone large scale renovations during the periods being compared or for which comparable results are not available. Comparable systemwide hotels and comparable owned and leased hotels are commonly used as a basis of measurement in the industry. "Non-comparable systemwide hotels" or "Non-comparable owned and leased hotels" represent all hotels that do not meet the respective definition of "comparable" as defined above. Principal Factors Affecting Our Results of Operations Revenues Principal Components We primarily derive our revenues from the following sources: Revenues from hotel operations. Represents revenues derived from hotel operations, including room rentals and food and beverage sales, and other ancillary revenues at our owned and leased properties. Revenues from the majority of our hotel operations depend heavily on demand from group and transient travelers, as discussed below. Revenues from our owned and leased hotels segment are primarily derived from hotel operations. Revenues from room rentals and ancillary revenues are primarily derived from three categories of customers: transient, group and contract. Transient guests are individual travelers who are traveling for business or leisure. Our group guests are traveling for group events that reserve a minimum of 10 rooms for meetings or social functions sponsored by associations, corporate, social, military, educational, religious or other organizations. Group business usually includes a block of room accommodations as well as other ancillary services, such as catering and banquet services. Our contract guests are traveling under a contract negotiated for a block of rooms for more than 30 days in duration at agreed-upon rates. Airline crews are typical generators of contract demand for our hotels. Management and franchise fees. Represents revenues derived from fees earned from hotels and residential properties managed worldwide (usually under long-term management agreements), franchise fees received in connection with the franchising of our brands (usually under long-term franchise agreements), termination fees, the amortization of deferred gains related to sold properties for which we have significant continuing involvement and license fees received in connection with vacation ownership properties. For a detailed discussion of our management and franchise fees, see Part I, Item 1, "Business Management Agreements Fees" and Part I, Item 1, "Business Franchise Agreements Fees." Other revenues from managed properties. Represents revenues related primarily to payroll costs, as well as reservations, marketing and technology costs at managed properties where we are the employer and are fully reimbursed by the third-party property owner based on the costs incurred, with no added margin. As a result, these revenues have no effect on our profit, although they do increase our total revenues and the corresponding costs increase our total expenses. We record these revenues in "Other revenues from managed properties" and the corresponding costs in "Other costs from managed properties" in our consolidated statements of income . 60 Table of Contents Intersegment eliminations. We evaluate our reportable segments with intersegment revenues and expenses included in their results. These intersegment revenues and expenses represent management fee revenues and expenses related to our owned and leased hotels and promotional award redemption revenues and expenses related to our co-branded credit card, which are eliminated in consolidation. Factors Affecting Our Revenues For other factors affecting our revenues, see Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business." Consumer demand and global economic conditions . Consumer demand for our products and services is closely linked to the performance of the general economy and is sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels. Declines in consumer demand due to adverse general economic conditions, risks affecting or reducing travel patterns, lower consumer confidence, adverse political conditions, currency volatility, impacts of terrorism and declining oil prices can lower the revenues and profitability of our owned hotel operations and the amount of management and franchising fee revenues we are able to generate from our managed and franchised properties. Also, declines in hotel profitability during an economic downturn directly impact the incentive portion of our management fees, since it is based on hotel profit measures. As a result, changes in consumer demand and general business cycles can subject and have subjected our revenues to significant volatility. See Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors Risks Related to the Hospitality Industry." For the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015, RevPAR improvements for our Americas full service and select service hotels, comparable owned and leased hotels and ASPAC full service hotels were partially offset by RevPAR declines for our EAME/SW Asia full service hotels. During 2016, the industry experienced lower RevPAR growth rates than those seen over the past several years due to reduced demand and pricing power in certain markets. We expect these industry conditions to persist into 2017 and result in another year of moderate year over year RevPAR growth. In the Americas management and franchising segment, transient demand and ADR growth at our full service hotels contributed to RevPAR increases during 2016 compared to 2015. Group ADR growth at our full service hotels was offset by lower group demand, resulting in limited group revenue growth during 2016 compared to 2015. Short-term group revenue booked in 2016 for stays in 2016 were lower compared to 2015. Long-term bookings in 2016 for stays in future years increased compared to 2015, despite a slow-down in long-term bookings during the fourth quarter as compared to the fourth quarter of 2015. ASPAC management and franchising segment RevPAR increased during 2016 compared to 2015 driven by strong transient demand across the region, particularly in mainland China. Our hotels in South Korea experienced increased demand as the tourism industry has recovered after the country was negatively impacted by the MERS outbreak in 2015. While Hong Kong, Taiwan and Macau experienced lower visitor arrivals in 2016, Hong Kong group business remained strong despite the difficult market conditions. EAME/SW Asia management and franchising segment RevPAR declined in 2016 compared to 2015 driven by lower ADR and occupancy in the Middle East, France, Switzerland and Turkey. The Middle East continued to experience pressure from new supply and reduced corporate business as a result of lower oil prices. The hotels in France and Turkey experienced lower demand due to security concerns and terrorism in the region. The RevPAR decreases in this segment were partially offset by strong rate and occupancy growth across Southwest Asia as the segment benefited from an improved business environment in India. Competition. The global lodging industry is highly competitive. While lodging demand has continued to grow over the last several years, we have also seen an increase in supply, particularly in certain key markets. This increased supply can put significant pressure on ADR levels at our properties as well as those of our competitors. Despite this increased supply, our systemwide RevPAR levels have increased each year since 2009. We also face competition from new channels of distribution in the travel industry, including online travel services and peer-to-peer inventory sources, as well as industry consolidation. We believe our brand strength and ability to manage our operations in an efficient manner will help us to continue competing successfully within the global hospitality industry. Agreements with third-party owners and franchisees and relationships with developers . We depend on our long-term management and franchise agreements with third-party owners and franchisees for a significant portion of our management and franchising fee revenues. The success and sustainability of our management and franchising business depends on our ability to perform under our management and franchising agreements and maintain good relationships with third-party owners and franchisees. Our relationships with these third parties also generate new relationships with developers and opportunities for property development that can support our growth. We believe we have good relationships with our third-party owners, franchisees and developers in all of our segments and are committed to the continued growth and development of these 61 Table of Contents relationships. These relationships exist with a diverse group of owners, franchisees and developers and are not heavily concentrated with any particular third party. Access to capital . The hospitality industry is a capital intensive business that requires significant amounts of capital expenditures to develop, maintain and renovate properties. Third-party owners are required to fund these capital expenditures for the properties they own in accordance with the terms of the applicable management or franchise agreement. Access to the capital that we or our third-party owners, franchisees or development partners need to finance the construction of new properties or to maintain and renovate existing properties is critical to the continued growth of our business and our revenues. The availability of capital or the conditions under which we or our third-party owners, franchisees or development partners can obtain capital can have a significant impact on the overall level and pace of future development and therefore the ability to grow our revenues. Expenses Principal Components We primarily incur the following expenses: Owned and leased hotels expenses. Owned and leased hotels expenses reflect the expenses of our consolidated owned and leased hotels. Expenses to operate our hotels include room expense, food and beverage costs, other support costs and property expenses. Room expense includes compensation costs for housekeeping, laundry and front desk staff and supply costs for guest room amenities and laundry. Food and beverage costs include costs for wait and kitchen staff and food and beverage products. Other support expenses consist of costs associated with property-level management (including deferred compensation plans for certain employees that are funded through contributions to rabbi trusts), utilities, sales and marketing, operating hotel spas, telephones, parking and other guest recreation, entertainment and services. Property expenses include property taxes, repairs and maintenance, rent and insurance. Depreciation and amortization expenses. These are non-cash expenses that primarily consist of depreciation of fixed assets such as buildings, furniture, fixtures and equipment at our consolidated owned and leased hotels. Amortization expense primarily consists of amortization of management and franchise agreement intangibles and lease related intangibles. Selling, general, and administrative expenses. Selling, general, and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation expense, including deferred compensation plans for certain employees that are funded through contributions to rabbi trusts, for our corporate staff and personnel supporting our business segments (including regional offices that support our management and franchising segments), professional fees (including consulting, audit and legal fees), travel and entertainment expenses, sales and marketing expenses, bad debt expenses and office administrative and related expenses. Other costs from managed properties. Represents costs related primarily to payroll expenses, as well as reservations, marketing and technology costs at managed properties where we are the employer. These costs are reimbursed to us with no added margin. As a result, these costs have no effect on our profit, although they do increase our total expenses and the corresponding reimbursements increase our total revenues. Factors Affecting Our Costs and Expenses For other factors affecting our costs and expenses, see Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business." Fixed nature of expenses. Many of the expenses associated with developing, owning, operating, managing, franchising and licensing hotels and residential and vacation ownership properties are relatively fixed. These expenses include personnel costs, rent, property taxes, insurance and utilities. If we are unable to decrease these costs significantly or rapidly when demand for our hotels and other properties decreases, the resulting decline in our revenues can have a particularly adverse effect on our net cash flow, margins and profits. This effect can be especially pronounced during periods of economic contraction or slow economic growth. Economic downturns generally affect the results of our owned and leased hotels segment more significantly than the results of our management and franchising segments due to the high fixed costs associated with operating an owned or leased property. The effectiveness of any cost-cutting efforts is limited by the fixed-cost nature of our business. As a result, we may not always be able to offset reductions in revenue through cost cutting. Employees at some of our owned hotels are parties to collective bargaining agreements that may also limit our ability to make timely staffing or labor changes in response to declining revenues. In addition, efforts to reduce costs, or to defer or cancel capital improvements, could adversely affect the economic value of our properties and brands. We intend to manage our cost structure at levels appropriate for the degree of demand and revenue generated at our hotels. Changes in depreciation expenses. Changes in depreciation expenses may be driven by renovations of existing properties, acquisition or development of new properties or the disposition of existing properties through sale or closure. We intend to consider strategic and complementary acquisitions of and investments in businesses, properties or other assets. If we 62 Table of Contents consummate such acquisitions in businesses, properties or other assets, we would likely add depreciable assets, which would result in an increase in depreciation expenses. Other Items Asset impairments We hold significant amounts of goodwill, intangible assets, property and equipment and investments. We evaluate these assets on a quarterly basis for impairment as further discussed in " Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates." These evaluations have, in the past, resulted in impairment charges for certain of these assets based on the specific facts and circumstances surrounding those assets. We may be required to take additional impairment charges to reflect further declines in our asset and/or investment values. Acquisitions, investments, divestitures and significant renovations We routinely acquire, divest, make investments in or undertake large scale renovations of hotel properties. The results of operations derived from these properties do not, therefore, meet the definition of "comparable hotels" as defined in " Key Business Metrics Evaluated by Management." The results of operations from these properties, however, may have a material effect on our results from period to period and are, therefore, addressed separately in our discussion on results of operations when material. In 2016, we entered into the following key transactions: acquired Thompson Miami Beach for a purchase price of approximately $238 million . The hotel was subsequently rebranded as The Confidante Miami Beach, and added to The Unbound Collection by Hyatt; acquired our partners' share in Andaz Maui at Wailea Resort and villas for a net purchase price of approximately $136 million . We accounted for the transaction as a step acquisition and recorded a gain through equity earnings (losses) from unconsolidated hospitality ventures of $14 million . Additionally, prior to the acquisition the unconsolidated hospitality venture repaid $121 million of third-party debt; acquired Royal Palms Resort and Spa in Phoenix, Arizona for a net purchase price of approximately $86 million and added the hotel to The Unbound Collection by Hyatt; sold Andaz 5th Avenue for a net sales price of $240 million and entered into a long-term management agreement with the purchaser of the hotel; sold the shares of the company that owns Hyatt Regency Birmingham (U.K.) for a net sales price of approximately $49 million and entered into a long-term management agreement with the purchaser of the hotel; and two unconsolidated hospitality ventures in which we hold or held an ownership interest and that are classified as equity method investments sold five Hyatt Place hotels for which we received combined proceeds of $15 million . In 2015, we entered into the following key transactions: sold Hyatt Regency Indianapolis for a net sales price of $69 million and entered into a long-term franchise agreement with the purchaser of the hotel; two unconsolidated hospitality ventures in which we hold or held an ownership interest and are classified as equity method investments sold two Hyatt House hotels for which we received combined proceeds of $16 million; sold a Hyatt House hotel for a net sales price of $5 million; and sold an entity which held an interest in one of our foreign currency denominated equity method investments, for which we received proceeds of $3 million. In connection with the sale, we released $21 million of accumulated foreign currency translation losses. In 2014, we entered into the following key transactions: sold 38 select service properties for approximately $581 million and entered into long-term franchise agreements with the purchaser of the hotels; sold the Hyatt Residential Group for $220 million, net of working capital adjustments, which includes an interest in an unconsolidated hospitality venture that owns a vacation ownership property in Maui, Hawaii, as well as a full service hotel. We entered into a master license agreement and receive ongoing license fees under this agreement. The Hyatt Residence Club and the vacation ownership resorts retained the Hyatt Residence Club brand; sold nine select service properties and one full service property for a combined $311 million. The properties remain Hyatt-branded hotels under long-term agreements; 63 Table of Contents acquired Park Hyatt New York for a purchase price of approximately $392 million; acquired Hyatt Regency Lost Pines Resort and Spa and adjacent land from an unconsolidated hospitality venture for a net purchase price of approximately $164 million. We accounted for the transaction as a step acquisition and recorded a gain through equity earnings (losses) from unconsolidated hospitality ventures of $12 million . As part of the acquisition, we recorded debt of approximately $69 million, inclusive of a $3 million debt premium; sold Hyatt Regency Vancouver for approximately $116 million and entered into a long-term management agreement with the purchaser of the hotel; sold Park Hyatt Washington for approximately $97 million and entered into a long-term management agreement with the purchaser of the hotel; sold Park Hyatt Toronto for approximately $88 million and entered into a long-term management agreement with the purchaser of the hotel; sold five Hyatt Place hotels for a total of $51 million, net of closing costs, and entered into long-term franchise agreements with the purchasers of the hotels; four unconsolidated hospitality ventures in which we held an ownership interest each sold a hotel to a third party. The hotels remain Hyatt-branded hotels under long-term management or franchise agreements; and acquired Hyatt Regency Grand Cypress for $191 million after exercising our purchase option under a capital lease. Effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations A significant portion of our operations are conducted in functional currencies other than our reporting currency which is the U.S. dollar. As a result, we are required to translate those results from the functional currency into U.S. dollars at market based average exchange rates during the period reported. When comparing our results of operations between periods, there may be material portions of the changes in our revenues or expenses that are derived from fluctuations in exchange rates experienced between those periods. See Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors Risks Related to the Hospitality Industry Because we derive a portion of our revenues from operations outside the United States, the risks of doing business internationally could lower our revenues, increase our costs, reduce our profits or disrupt our business." 64 Table of Contents Results of Operations Years Ended December 31, 2016 , December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 Discussion on Consolidated Results For additional information regarding our consolidated results, please also refer to our consolidated statements of income included in Part IV, Item 15, "Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule Consolidated Financial Statements". The impact from our investments in marketable securities held to fund operating programs, including securities held to fund our benefit programs funded through a rabbi trust and securities held to fund our Hyatt Gold Passport program, were recorded on the various financial statement line items discussed below and have no impact on net income. Owned and leased hotels revenues . 2016 compared to 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 Better / (Worse) Currency Impact Comparable owned and leased hotels revenues $ 2,018 $ 2,017 $ 1 % $ (23 ) Non-comparable owned and leased hotels revenues 90 62 28 45.2 % (2 ) Total owned and leased hotels revenues $ 2,108 $ 2,079 $ 29 1.4 % $ (25 ) The increase in comparable owned and leased hotels revenues for the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 was primarily driven by full service hotels in the United States and Mexico, largely offset by decreases at certain of our international hotels which were primarily driven by market weakness in France, rate and occupancy declines in Switzerland and unfavorable net currency impact. The increase in non-comparable owned and leased hotels revenues was driven by acquisitions and openings in 2016, partially offset by hotels sold in 2015 and 2016. 2015 compared to 2014 Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 Better / (Worse) Currency Impact Comparable owned and leased hotels revenues $ 1,938 $ 1,888 $ 50 2.6 % $ (56 ) Non-comparable owned and leased hotels revenues 141 358 (217 ) (60.6 )% (10 ) Total owned and leased hotels revenues $ 2,079 $ 2,246 $ (167 ) (7.4 )% $ (66 ) The increase in comparable owned and leased hotels revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 was primarily driven by full service hotels in the United States, partially offset by decreases at certain of our international hotels which were primarily driven by net unfavorable currency impact. The decrease in non-comparable owned and leased hotels revenues was driven by dispositions partially offset by openings and acquisitions during 2014 and 2015. See " Segment Results" for further discussion of owned and leased hotels revenues. Management and franchise fee revenues. Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Better / (Worse) 2016 vs 2015 Better / (Worse) 2015 vs 2014 Base management fees $ 190 $ 187 $ 180 $ 3 1.6 % $ 7 3.9 % Incentive management fees 117 113 111 4 3.5 % 2 1.8 % Franchise fees 104 88 65 16 18.2 % 23 35.4 % Other fee revenues 37 39 31 (2 ) (5.1 )% 8 25.8 % Total management and franchise fees $ 448 $ 427 $ 387 $ 21 4.9 % $ 40 10.3 % The increase in management and franchise fee revenues included net unfavorable currency impact of $3 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the same period in 2015 . The increase in franchise fees was driven by new and converted hotels and improved performance at existing hotels in the Americas. The increases in management fees were 65 Table of Contents primarily driven by improved performance at full service and select service properties in the Americas and full service properties in ASPAC, partially offset by decreased performance in Europe. The increase in management and franchise fee revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the same period in 2014, included a net unfavorable currency impact of $15 million. The increases in management fees were primarily driven by improved performance at full service properties in the Americas, partially offset by unfavorable currency impact on fees in Europe and decreased performance at certain properties in the Middle East. The increase in franchise fees was driven by new and converted hotels and improved performance at existing hotels in the Americas. The increase in other fee revenues was primarily driven by a $9 million increase in the amortization of deferred gains from hotels sold subject to long-term management agreements. Other revenues. Other revenues related to our co-branded credit card increased $4 million during the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 driven by program growth. Other revenues decreased $39 million during the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 due to our sale of our vacation ownership business, partially offset by increased revenues related to our co-branded credit card driven by program growth. Other revenues from managed properties. Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Better / (Worse) 2016 vs 2015 Better / (Worse) 2015 vs 2014 Other revenues from managed properties excluding rabbi trust impact $ 1,825 $ 1,785 $ 1,698 $ 40 2.2 % $ 87 5.1 % Rabbi trust impact 8 1 9 7 700.0 % (8 ) (88.9 )% Other revenues from managed properties $ 1,833 $ 1,786 $ 1,707 $ 47 2.6 % $ 79 4.6 % Excluding the impact of rabbi trust, other revenues from managed properties increased in the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 due to a higher volume of reimbursements paid to us by our managed properties for increased member participation in our Hyatt Gold Passport program, increased technology and reservation costs and increased select service payroll and related costs, partially offset by a decrease in full service payroll and related costs driven by hotel conversions and a hotel that left the chain. Excluding the impact of rabbi trust, other revenues from managed properties increased during the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 due to a higher volume of reimbursements paid to us by our managed properties for increased member participation in our Hyatt Gold Passport program, increased payroll and related costs and increased marketing costs, which was driven in part by new hotel openings and owned hotels sold subject to long-term management agreements. These increases were partially offset by decreases of $30 million in reimbursements due to the sale of our vacation ownership business. Owned and leased hotels expense . Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 Better / (Worse) Comparable owned and leased hotels expense $ 1,520 $ 1,512 $ (8 ) (0.5 )% Non-comparable owned and leased hotels expense 87 49 (38 ) (77.6 )% Rabbi trust impact 3 1 (2 ) (200.0 )% Total owned and leased hotels expense $ 1,610 $ 1,562 $ (48 ) (3.1 )% Comparable owned and leased hotels expense included $15 million net favorable currency impact in the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 . The increase in the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 was primarily driven by increased payroll and related costs, partially offset by a decrease in utilities expenses due to lower gas and oil prices. Non-comparable owned and leased hotels expense increased in the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 driven by the acquisitions and openings in 2016, partially offset by hotels sold in 2015 and 2016. See " Segment Results" for a discussion of the non-comparable owned and leased hotels activity in 2016 and 2015. Additionally, expenses recognized with respect to our employee benefit programs funded through rabbi trusts increased driven by the performance of the underlying invested assets during the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 . 66 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 Better / (Worse) Comparable owned and leased hotels expense $ 1,447 $ 1,423 $ (24 ) (1.7 )% Non-comparable owned and leased hotels expense 114 265 151 57.0 % Rabbi trust impact 1 3 2 66.7 % Total owned and leased hotels expense $ 1,562 $ 1,691 $ 129 7.6 % Comparable owned and leased hotels expense included $46 million net favorable currency impact in the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. The increase in comparable owned and leased hotels expense for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 was primarily driven by increased property taxes, labor costs, and rent expense at certain properties and higher commissions across the portfolio due to increased group and transient business. Non-comparable owned and leased hotels expense included a $10 million net favorable currency impact in the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease in the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 was driven by the sale of four full service hotels and 52 select service hotels in 2014 and the sale of one full service hotel in 2015. See " Segment Results" for a discussion of the non-comparable owned and leased hotels activity in 2015 and 2014. Additionally, expenses recognized with respect to our employee benefit programs funded through rabbi trusts decreased due to the performance of the underlying invested assets during the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. Depreciation and amortization expense . Depreciation and amortization expense increased $22 million in the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 primarily driven by depreciation for assets placed in service in 2015 and 2016 related to technology projects, acquisitions and hotel openings, partially offset by decreased depreciation related to the sale of Andaz 5th Avenue in the second quarter of 2016. A portion of the depreciation related to technology assets is recovered from our managed and franchised hotels and the corresponding recovery is included in other income (loss), net. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $34 million in the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 driven by non-comparable hotels sold during 2015 and 2014, partially offset by recently acquired and newly opened hotels. Other direct costs . Other direct costs increased $1 million in the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 . Other direct costs decreased $6 million in the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014, driven by $14 million due to the sale of our vacation ownership business, which was partially offset by an increase of $8 million in direct costs of our co-branded credit card primarily due to program growth during 2015. Selling, general, and administrative expenses . Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Change 2016 vs 2015 Change 2015 vs 2014 Selling, general, and administrative expenses $ 315 $ 308 $ 349 $ 7 2.3 % $ (41 ) (11.7 )% Less: rabbi trust impact (14 ) (2 ) (9 ) (12 ) (600.0 )% 7 77.8 % Less: stock-based compensation expense (25 ) (23 ) (49 ) (2 ) (8.7 )% 26 53.1 % Adjusted selling, general, and administrative expenses 276 283 291 (7 ) (2.5 )% (8 ) (2.7 )% Less: vacation ownership business (24 ) % 24 100.0 % Adjusted selling, general, and administrative expenses excluding impact of sale of vacation ownership business $ 276 $ 283 $ 267 $ (7 ) (2.5 )% $ 16 6.0 % Adjusted selling, general, and administrative expenses decreased $7 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the same period in 2015 , primarily driven by a $10 million decrease in professional fees related to certain initiatives completed in 2015, partially offset by a $5 million increase in payroll and related costs. Adjusted selling, general, and administrative expenses, excluding vacation ownership, increased $16 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the same period in 2014, primarily driven by a $10 million increase in professional fees. The increase in professional fees was primarily due to certain initiatives completed during the year. 67 Table of Contents Net gains and interest income from marketable securities held to fund operating programs . Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Better / (Worse) 2016 vs 2015 Better / (Worse) 2015 vs 2014 Rabbi trust impact allocated to selling, general, and administrative expenses $ 14 $ 2 $ 9 $ 12 600.0 % $ (7 ) (77.8 )% Rabbi trust impact allocated to owned and leased hotels expense 3 1 3 2 200.0 % (2 ) (66.7 )% Net gains and interest income from marketable securities held to fund our Hyatt Gold Passport program allocated to owned and leased hotels revenues 2 1 3 1 100.0 % (2 ) (66.7 )% Net gains and interest income from marketable securities held to fund operating programs $ 19 $ 4 $ 15 $ 15 375.0 % $ (11 ) (73.3 )% Equity earnings (losses) from unconsolidated hospitality ventures. Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Better / (Worse) 2016 vs 2015 Better / (Worse) 2015 vs 2014 Equity earnings (losses) from unconsolidated hospitality ventures $ 68 $ (64 ) $ 25 $ 132 206.3 % $ (89 ) (356.0 )% The $132 million increase during the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 , was attributable to the following: $42 million increase in earnings from distributions from three of our unconsolidated hospitality ventures, related to debt refinancings; $35 million increase due to foreign currency volatility at one of our unconsolidated hospitality ventures which holds loans denominated in a currency other than its functional currency. During the year ended December 31, 2016, we recognized foreign currency gains of $7 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 in which we recognized foreign currency losses of $28 million. A portion of the loan balance was refinanced at the end of 2015 and therefore we anticipate decreased exposure in future periods as compared to 2015; $14 million gain related to the 2016 acquisition of our partners' share in Andaz Maui at Wailea Resort and villas that was recorded as a step acquisition; $21 million increase as a result of losses recognized during the year ended December 31, 2015 related to the sale of an entity that held an interest in one of our foreign currency denominated unconsolidated hospitality ventures and the release of accumulated foreign currency translation losses upon sale; $13 million increase primarily attributable to expenses recognized in the year ended December 31, 2015 related to debt repayment guarantees entered into by our unconsolidated hospitality ventures; and $9 million decrease related to impairment charges recorded related to four unconsolidated hospitality ventures during the year ended December 31, 2016. The $89 million decrease during the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 was attributable to the following: $23 million increase in foreign currency losses at one of our unconsolidated hospitality ventures which holds loans denominated in a currency other than its functional currency, resulting in losses due to currency volatility during the period; $21 million decrease related to gains on sales of hotels by unconsolidated hospitality ventures in which we held an interest. During the year ended December 31, 2015 we recognized gains of $13 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 in which we recognized gains of $37 million; 68 Table of Contents $21 million decrease attributable to the release of accumulated foreign currency translation losses related to the aforementioned sale of an entity that held an interest in one of our foreign currency denominated unconsolidated hospitality ventures during the year ended December 31, 2015; $16 million decrease related to timing of recognition of expenses due to debt repayment guarantees entered into during 2015 related to three of our unconsolidated hospitality ventures; and $11 million decrease attributable to operating and non-operating losses related to one of our unconsolidated hospitality ventures which was driven primarily by interest, tax, and other nonrecurring expenses recorded during the period. Interest expense . Interest expense increased $8 million in the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 driven by increased interest expense related to the 2026 notes issued in the first quarter of 2016, partially offset by decreased interest expense related to the 2016 notes which were redeemed during the second quarter of 2016. Interest expense decreased $3 million in the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 primarily due to a reduction in interest expense for Hyatt Regency Grand Cypress as we exercised our purchase option during 2014. Gains (losses) on sales of real estate and other. During the year ended December 31, 2016 , we sold Andaz 5th Avenue resulting in a pre-tax loss of $23 million. During the year ended December 31, 2015, we sold Hyatt Regency Indianapolis and a Hyatt House hotel resulting in a $9 million pre-tax gain. During the year ended December 31, 2014, we sold a portfolio of 38 select service properties, a portfolio of nine select service properties and one full service property, and five Hyatt Place hotels resulting in pre-tax gains of $231 million and our vacation ownership business resulting in a gain of $80 million. See Part IV, Item 15, "Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements" for additional information regarding the above transactions. Asset impairments. We recorded no asset impairments during the year ended December 31, 2016 . During the year ended December 31, 2015, we recognized $5 million in asset impairment charges related to property and equipment within our owned and leased hotels segment. During the year ended December 31, 2014, we recognized a $17 million impairment charge, $13 million related to property and equipment and $2 million related to goodwill recorded within our owned and leased hotels segment and $2 million related to intangibles within our Americas management and franchising segment. Other income (loss), net . Other income (loss), net increased $7 million in the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 . See Part IV, Item 15, "Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements" for additional information. The increase was attributable to the following: $22 million increase in performance guarantee liability amortization income recognized primarily related to the four managed hotels in France that are subject to a performance guarantee ("the four managed hotels in France"). See Part IV, Item 15, "Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements" for further detail; $15 million increase primarily due to foreign currency volatility of the Brazilian real largely related to a construction loan for Grand Hyatt Rio de Janeiro; $13 million increase in depreciation recovery related to expense recovered from our managed and franchised hotels; $12 million of interest income related to the early redemption of a portion of our Playa Hotels & Resorts B.V. ("Playa") preferred shares. We also recognized a $6 million realized loss in conjunction with the redemption. In connection with Playa's potential business combination with Pace Holdings Corporation ("Pace") or potential future initial public offering ("Playa IPO") as discussed in Part IV, Item 15, "Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements", we anticipate a full or partial redemption of our remaining Playa preferred shares. In the event of a full redemption in the latter half of the first quarter of 2017, we would receive approximately $290 million of cash proceeds. Assuming such a redemption we would recognize interest income of approximately $93 million and realized losses of approximately $40 million in other income (loss), net on our consolidated statements of income. In the event of a partial redemption or change in timing of a redemption our cash proceeds and financial statement impacts described above would change; and 69 Table of Contents $36 million increase in performance guarantee expense, net. We recognized expense of $64 million and $28 million during the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively, related to the performance guarantee for the four managed hotels in France. When we are above a specified operating profit threshold, we record incentive fees in our management and franchise revenues. When we are below the operating profit threshold, we record performance guarantee expense. See Part IV, Item 15, "Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements" for further detail. Due to ongoing renovations and declines in the market, we expect the expense in 2017 related to this guarantee could be approximately $80 million. We expect 2017 to be the peak year for this expense due to the timing of extensive hotel renovations and persistent market softness. During the third quarter of 2017 we plan to move into our new corporate headquarters at 150 N. Riverside Plaza, Chicago, Illinois, prior to the expiration of our current leases. Our new headquarters facility will enable us to bring together all of our Chicago-based colleagues in one location with an enhanced work environment and a more efficient utilization of space. As a result, we expect to record a cease-use liability of approximately $25 million in the third quarter of 2017 which will be recorded to other income (loss), net within our consolidated statements of income. This expense represents the fair value of our remaining contractual obligations under the current leases, offset by estimated market sublease rentals that could be reasonably obtained, discounted using Hyatt credit-adjusted risk free rate. Other income (loss), net increased $12 million in the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily attributable to the following: $13 million increase related to realignment and transaction costs recorded in the year ended December 31, 2014 that did not recur in 2015; $10 million increase in depreciation recovery related to expense recovered from our managed and franchised hotels; and $11 million decrease primarily due to foreign currency volatility of the Brazilian real related to a construction loan for Grand Hyatt Rio de Janeiro. Provision for income taxes . Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Better / (Worse) 2016 vs 2015 Better / (Worse) 2015 vs 2014 Income before income taxes $ 289 $ 194 $ 525 $ 95 $ (331 ) Income tax expense (85 ) (70 ) (179 ) (15 ) 109 Effective tax rate 29.5 % 36.2 % 34.1 % 6.7 % (2.1 )% The decreased effective tax rate as of the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 was primarily driven by a 5 percentage point favorable impact of certain one-time items related to the reversal of uncertain tax positions and a nonrecurring foreign tax credit benefit of 3 percentage points related to a foreign unconsolidated hospitality venture. Income tax expense decreased $109 million in the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 due to a decrease in pre-tax income in 2015 compared to 2014, driven by gains on sales of real estate recorded in 2014. The increased effective tax rate was primarily driven by a 9 percentage point impact of certain foreign unconsolidated hospitality venture pre-tax losses that were not benefited for tax and one-time tax items recorded year over year, such as changes in tax contingencies and deferred tax adjustments. The aforementioned items were partially offset by a net 10 percentage point decrease in the effective tax rate recorded related to global transfer pricing changes implemented during the year to better align our transfer pricing policy with our global business operating model. See Part IV, Item 15, "Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements" for further detail. 70 Table of Contents Segment Results We evaluate segment operating performance using segment revenue and segment Adjusted EBITDA, as described in Part IV, Item 15, "Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements." See " Key Business Metrics Evaluated by Management" for a discussion of our definition of Adjusted EBITDA, how we use it, why we present it and material limitations on its usefulness. The charts below illustrate revenues by segment excluding other revenues from managed properties which are presented before intersegment eliminations. *Consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2016 included corporate and other revenues of $43 million , eliminations of $98 million and other revenues from managed properties of $ 1,833 million . **Consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015 included corporate and other revenues of $40 million , eliminations of $89 million and other revenues from managed properties of $1,786 million . *Consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014 included corporate and other revenues of $75 million, eliminations of $105 million and other revenues from managed properties of $1,707 million. 71 Table of Contents Owned and leased hotels revenues . 2016 compared to 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 Better / (Worse) Currency Impact Comparable owned and leased hotels revenues $ 2,029 $ 2,017 $ 12 0.6 % $ (23 ) Non-comparable owned and leased hotels revenues 90 62 28 45.2 % (2 ) Total owned and leased hotels revenues $ 2,119 $ 2,079 $ 40 1.9 % $ (25 ) The increase in comparable owned and leased hotels revenues during the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 was largely driven by increases of $36 million at our hotels in the United States and $4 million at our owned hotel in Mexico, including a net unfavorable currency impact of $8 million , partially offset by decreases of $28 million at our other international hotels. For the year ended December 31, 2016 , revenue growth at our comparable hotels in the United States and Mexico was a result of improved transient business and group ADR as well as food and beverage revenues. The decrease in comparable international hotels was driven by net unfavorable currency impact of $15 million and decreased performance at our owned hotels in EAME/SW Asia. Year Ended December 31, RevPAR Occupancy ADR 2016 2015 Better / (Worse) Better / (Worse) Constant $ 2016 2015 Change in Occ % pts 2016 2015 Better / (Worse) Better / (Worse) Constant $ Comparable owned and leased hotels $ 170 $ 168 1.2 % 2.2 % 76.7 % 76.1 % 0.6 % $ 222 $ 221 0.3 % 1.4 % The increase in non-comparable owned and leased hotels revenues was driven by the following activity, in order of significance: the opening of Grand Hyatt Rio de Janeiro in 2016; the acquisitions of The Confidante Miami Beach and Royal Palms Resort and Spa in 2016; and the acquisition of our partners' interest in Andaz Maui at Wailea Resort and villas in 2016. The increase in revenues was partially offset by the following activity: the dispositions of Andaz 5th Avenue and Hyatt Regency Birmingham (U.K.) in 2016. During the year ended December 31, 2016 , we removed two full service properties that were sold in the period from the comparable owned and leased hotels results. 2015 compared to 2014 Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 Better / (Worse) Currency Impact Comparable owned and leased hotels revenues $ 1,938 $ 1,888 $ 50 2.6 % $ (56 ) Non-comparable owned and leased hotels revenues 141 358 (217 ) (60.6 )% (10 ) Total owned and leased hotels revenues $ 2,079 $ 2,246 $ (167 ) (7.4 )% $ (66 ) The increase in comparable owned and leased hotels revenues during the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 was largely driven by increases of $94 million at our comparable hotels in the United States, partially offset by decreases of $44 million at our comparable international hotels. For the year ended December 31, 2015, revenue growth at our United States comparable hotels was a result of improved group and transient ADR and demand as well as food and beverage revenues. The decrease in comparable international hotels was driven by net unfavorable currency impact of $56 million and decreased performance at our owned hotel in South Korea primarily due to the MERS outbreak, partially offset by improvements at our owned hotel in Mexico driven by group business. 72 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, RevPAR Occupancy ADR 2015 2014 Better / (Worse) Better / (Worse) Constant $ 2015 2014 Change in Occ % pts 2015 2014 Better / (Worse) Better / (Worse) Constant $ Comparable owned and leased hotels $ 167 $ 163 2.4 % 5.4 % 76.6 % 76.0 % 0.6 % $ 218 $ 214 1.6 % 4.6 % The decrease in non-comparable owned and leased hotels revenues was driven by the following activity, in order of significance: the sale of Park Hyatt Toronto, Hyatt Regency Vancouver, Park Hyatt Washington and one additional full service hotel and 52 select service hotels in 2014; and the sale of Hyatt Regency Indianapolis in 2015. The decrease in revenues was partially offset by the following activity, in order of significance: the acquisition of Hyatt Regency Lost Pines Resort and Spa from an unconsolidated hospitality venture in 2014; and the acquisition of Park Hyatt New York and the opening of one select service hotel in 2014. During the year ended December 31, 2015 , we removed one full service property and one select service property that were sold in the period from the comparable owned and leased hotels results. Owned and leased hotels segment Adjusted EBITDA . Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Better / (Worse) 2016 vs 2015 Better / (Worse) 2015 vs 2014 Owned and leased hotels Adjusted EBITDA $ 416 $ 413 $ 443 $ 3 0.7 % $ (30 ) (6.8 )% Pro rata share of unconsolidated hospitality ventures Adjusted EBITDA 100 80 80 20 25.0 % % Segment Adjusted EBITDA $ 516 $ 493 $ 523 $ 23 4.7 % $ (30 ) (5.7 )% Owned and leased hotels Adjusted EBITDA . Adjusted EBITDA at our comparable owned and leased hotels increased $13 million in the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the same period in 2015 , which included $7 million net unfavorable currency impact. The increase was largely due to improved transient business and group ADR at our full service hotels in the United States and Mexico. Partially offsetting the revenue growth were increased payroll and related costs, partially offset by a decrease in utilities expense due to lower gas and oil prices in 2016. Adjusted EBITDA at our non-comparable hotels decreased $10 million in the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the prior year, primarily attributable to the following 2016 activity: the dispositions of Andaz 5th Avenue and Hyatt Regency Birmingham (U.K.); the opening of Grand Hyatt Rio de Janeiro; and the acquisition of The Confidante Miami Beach; partially offset by the acquisition of Andaz Maui at Wailea Resort and villas. Adjusted EBITDA at our comparable owned and leased hotels increased $21 million in the period ended December 31, 2015 compared to the same period in 2014, which included $10 million net unfavorable currency impact. The increase was largely due to improved group and transient ADR and demand as well as food and beverage revenues at our full service hotels in the United States and Mexico. Partially offsetting the revenue growth were increased property taxes, labor costs and rent expense at certain properties and higher commissions across the portfolio due to increased group and transient business. Adjusted EBITDA at our non-comparable hotels decreased $51 million in the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the prior year, primarily due to dispositions, partially offset by openings and acquisitions during 2014 and 2015. See " Owned and Leased Hotels Revenues" for a discussion of the non-comparable owned and leased hotels 2015 and 2014 activity. 73 Table of Contents Pro rata share of unconsolidated hospitality ventures Adjusted EBITDA . Our pro rata share of Adjusted EBITDA from our unconsolidated hospitality ventures increased $20 million in the year ended December 31, 2016 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 , which included an insignificant net unfavorable currency impact. The increase was primarily driven by hotel openings and improved performance at hotels within the Playa unconsolidated hospitality venture and Wailea Hotel Holdings, L.L.C unconsolidated hospitality venture, prior to our acquisition of the latter in the fourth quarter of 2016. In connection with Playa's potential business combination with Pace or a potential future Playa IPO as discussed in Part IV, Item 15, "Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements", our common stock investment in Playa may be recharacterized as a marketable securities investment. Depending on the amount of our common stock ownership subsequent to the Pace business combination or potential future Playa IPO, we may no longer account for our investment under the equity method of accounting. In this situation, our share of Playa results, which comprised approximately one third of the pro rata share of unconsolidated hospitality ventures Adjusted EBITDA for the year ended December 31, 2016 , would no longer be included in our pro rata share of unconsolidated hospitality ventures Adjusted EBITDA. Our pro rata share of Adjusted EBITDA from our unconsolidated hospitality ventures was flat in the year ended December 31, 2015 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2014, which included a $4 million net unfavorable currency impact. Americas management and franchising segment revenues . Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Better / (Worse) 2016 vs 2015 Better / (Worse) 2015 vs 2014 Segment revenues Management, franchise and other fees $ 371 $ 354 $ 327 $ 17 4.8 % $ 27 8.3 % Other revenues from managed properties 1,670 1,641 1,550 29 1.8 % 91 5.9 % Total segment revenues $ 2,041 $ 1,995 $ 1,877 $ 46 2.3 % $ 118 6.3 % Americas management and franchising revenues included $1 million net unfavorable currency impact in the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 . The increase in management, franchise and other fees was driven by a $15 million increase in franchise fees, primarily due to new and converted hotels and improved performance at existing select service hotels and all inclusive resorts. Base fees increased $3 million , primarily driven by strong RevPAR growth at select service properties. Incentive fees increased $2 million driven by full service properties in North America. Other fee revenues decreased $3 million as 2015 included $3 million of termination fees. The increase in other revenues from managed properties in the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 was due to a higher volume of reimbursements paid to us by our managed properties. The increased activity related to increased member participation in our Hyatt Gold Passport program, and increased select service payroll and related costs due to new hotels, partially offset by a decrease in full service payroll and related costs due to hotel conversions and one hotel that left the chain. Additionally, the changes in the value of the underlying assets for our benefit programs funded through rabbi trusts resulted in a $7 million increase in the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 . (Comparable Systemwide Hotels) Year Ended December 31, RevPAR Occupancy ADR 2016 2015 Better / (Worse) Better / (Worse) Constant $ 2016 2015 Change in Occ % pts 2016 2015 Better / (Worse) Better / (Worse) Constant $ Americas full service $ 151 $ 148 2.3 % 2.8 % 75.3 % 75.5 % (0.2 )% $ 200 $ 195 2.5 % 3.1 % Americas select service 104 99 5.3 % 5.4 % 78.1 % 76.7 % 1.4 % 134 129 3.4 % 3.4 % Our comparable full service hotels RevPAR improved in the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 , primarily driven by improved transient business and group ADR. RevPAR at our select service hotels in the year ended December 31, 2016 increased compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 , driven primarily by transient business. 74 Table of Contents During the year ended December 31, 2016 , one property that left the chain was removed from the comparable Americas full service systemwide hotels. During the year ended December 31, 2016 , one property was removed from the comparable Americas select service systemwide hotels as a result of hurricane damage closing the hotel for an extended period. Americas management and franchising revenues included $3 million net unfavorable currency impact in the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. The increase in management, franchise and other fees was driven by a $23 million increase in franchise fees, primarily due to new and converted hotels and improved performance at existing hotels. Incentive fees increased $3 million driven by full service properties in North America due to increased hotel profits. Other fee revenues increased $5 million, primarily due to amortization of deferred gains of $9 million from hotels sold subject to long-term management agreements, partially offset by decreased termination fees of $2 million. Base fees decreased $4 million primarily driven by select service properties in North America due to the sale and conversion of hotels to franchised hotels, partially offset by full service hotel fee growth and increased RevPAR. The increase in other revenues from managed properties in the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 was due to a higher volume of reimbursements paid to us by our managed properties for increased member participation in our Hyatt Gold Passport program, increased payroll and related costs and increased marketing costs, which was driven in part by new hotel openings, and owned hotels that were sold subject to long-term management agreements. These increases were partially offset by a decrease from the changes in the value of the underlying assets for our benefit programs funded through rabbi trusts for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. (Comparable Systemwide Hotels) Year Ended December 31, RevPAR Occupancy ADR 2015 2014 Better / (Worse) Better / (Worse) Constant $ 2015 2014 Change in Occ % pts 2015 2014 Better / (Worse) Better / (Worse) Constant $ Americas full service $ 147 $ 140 5.5 % 6.6 % 75.6 % 74.7 % 0.9 % $ 195 $ 187 4.1 % 5.2 % Americas select service 100 93 7.7 % 7.7 % 77.7 % 76.5 % 1.2 % 128 121 6.0 % 6.0 % Excluding the net unfavorable currency impact, our comparable full service hotels RevPAR increased in the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily driven by improved group and transient ADR. We also experienced slight growth in occupancy from group and transient business. RevPAR at our select service hotels increased in the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily driven by transient rate growth. During the year ended December 31, 2015, two properties that left the chain were removed from the comparable Americas full service systemwide hotels. During the year ended December 31, 2015, one property that left the chain was removed from the comparable Americas select service systemwide hotels. Americas management and franchising segment Adjusted EBITDA . Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Better / (Worse) 2016 vs 2015 Better / (Worse) 2015 vs 2014 Segment Adjusted EBITDA $ 318 $ 300 $ 265 $ 18 6.0 % $ 35 13.2 % Adjusted EBITDA increased in the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 , which included $1 million net unfavorable currency impact. The increase was primarily due to the aforementioned $17 million increase in management, franchise and other fees and a $1 million decrease in adjusted selling, general, and administrative expenses, primarily due to a $5 million decrease in professional fees, partially offset by a $2 million increase in bad debt reserves, $1 million increase in payroll and related costs and a $1 million increase in brand conversion expenses. Adjusted EBITDA increased in the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014, which included $3 million net unfavorable currency impact. The increase was primarily due to the aforementioned $27 million increase in management, franchise and other fees. Additionally, adjusted selling, general, and administrative expenses decreased $8 million during the same period primarily driven by $5 million in settlement fees in 2014. 75 Table of Contents ASPAC management and franchising segment revenues. Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Better / (Worse) 2016 vs 2015 Better / (Worse) 2015 vs 2014 Segment revenues Management, franchise and other fees $ 96 $ 91 $ 88 $ 5 5.5 % $ 3 3.4 % Other revenues from managed properties 98 87 74 11 12.6 % 13 17.6 % Total segment revenues $ 194 $ 178 $ 162 $ 16 9.0 % $ 16 9.9 % ASPAC management and franchising revenues included $1 million net unfavorable currency impact in the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 . The increase in management, franchise and other fees during the year ended December 31, 2016 was primarily driven by increased base fees due to hotels opened in China during 2015 and 2016 and increased incentive fees at certain properties in China and Southeast Asia, partially offset by decreased fees in Macau. The $11 million increase in other revenues from managed properties in the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 was due a higher volume of reimbursements paid to us by our managed properties for increased reservation and technology expenses as well as increased member participation in our Hyatt Gold Passport program. (Comparable Systemwide Hotels) Year Ended December 31, RevPAR Occupancy ADR 2016 2015 Better / (Worse) Better / (Worse) Constant $ 2016 2015 Change in Occ % pts 2016 2015 Better / (Worse) Better / (Worse) Constant $ ASPAC full service $ 147 $ 145 1.9 % 2.2 % 70.8 % 67.9 % 2.9 % $ 208 $ 213 (2.3 )% (2.0 )% Excluding the net unfavorable currency impact, the increase in RevPAR for the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to year ended December 31, 2015 was driven by increased occupancy in China, South Korea and Southeast Asia. These increases were partially offset by decreased ADR spread across the region, primarily in China and Southeast Asia. During the year ended December 31, 2016 , we removed two properties from the comparable ASPAC full service systemwide hotels, one as a result of a significant renovation and one that left the chain. ASPAC management and franchising revenues included $5 million net unfavorable currency impact in the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. The increase in management, franchise and other fees during the year ended December 31, 2015 was primarily driven by increased incentive fees at certain properties in Japan and China, partially offset by declines at certain properties in South Korea, largely due to the MERS outbreak. The increase in other revenues from managed properties in the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 was due to a higher volume of reimbursements paid to us by our managed properties for increased member participation in our Hyatt Gold Passport program. (Comparable Systemwide Hotels) Year Ended December 31, RevPAR Occupancy ADR 2015 2014 Better / (Worse) Better / (Worse) Constant $ 2015 2014 Change in Occ % pts 2015 2014 Better / (Worse) Better / (Worse) Constant $ ASPAC full service $ 151 $ 157 (3.5 )% 3.3 % 70.3 % 68.2 % 2.1 % $ 215 $ 230 (6.3 )% 0.3 % Excluding the net unfavorable currency impact, the increase in comparable full service RevPAR for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 was driven by increased occupancy in parts of China and improved ADR and occupancy in Japan. These increases were partially offset by decreased RevPAR in South Korea, primarily driven by the MERS outbreak. During the year ended December 31, 2015, we removed three properties from the comparable ASPAC full service systemwide hotels, as a result of one property that left the chain and two properties that were undergoing significant renovation. 76 Table of Contents ASPAC management and franchising segment Adjusted EBITDA. Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Better / (Worse) 2016 vs 2015 Better / (Worse) 2015 vs 2014 Segment Adjusted EBITDA $ 57 $ 55 $ 49 $ 2 3.6 % $ 6 12.2 % Adjusted EBITDA included $1 million net unfavorable currency impact in the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 . The aforementioned increase in management, franchise and other fees was partially offset by an increase in adjusted selling, general, and administrative expenses of $3 million . The increase in adjusted selling, general, and administrative expenses was driven by a $2 million increase in payroll and related costs and a $1 million increase in professional fees related to development expenses incurred during the year. Adjusted EBITDA increased in the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014, which included $4 million net unfavorable currency impact. The increase was driven by the aforementioned increase in management, franchise and other fees and a decrease in adjusted selling, general, and administrative expenses of $3 million as 2014 included $3 million of owner accommodation costs. EAME/SW Asia management and franchising segment revenues. Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Better / (Worse) 2016 vs 2015 Better / (Worse) 2015 vs 2014 Segment revenues Management, franchise and other fees $ 65 $ 67 $ 77 $ (2 ) (3.0 )% $ (10 ) (13.0 )% Other revenues from managed properties 65 58 53 7 12.1 % 5 9.4 % Total segment revenues $ 130 $ 125 $ 130 $ 5 4.0 % $ (5 ) (3.8 )% EAME/SW Asia management and franchising revenues included $2 million net unfavorable currency impact in the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 . The decrease in management, franchise and other fees was primarily due to a $2 million decrease in incentive fees, primarily driven by decreased performance at properties in Europe and the Middle East, partially offset by increases from properties in India and ramping of hotels opened in 2015. The increase in other revenues from managed properties in the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 was due to a higher volume of reimbursements paid to us by our managed properties for reservation and technology costs as well as increased member participation in our Hyatt Gold Passport program. (Comparable Systemwide Hotels) Year Ended December 31, RevPAR Occupancy ADR 2016 2015 Better / (Worse) Better / (Worse) Constant $ 2016 2015 Change in Occ % pts 2016 2015 Better / (Worse) Better / (Worse) Constant $ EAME/SW Asia full service $ 119 $ 129 (7.6 )% (4.6 )% 63.4 % 63.5 % (0.1 )% $ 188 $ 203 (7.5 )% (4.4 )% EAME/SW Asia select service $ 70 $ 65 8.6 % 9.4 % 71.9 % 64.3 % 7.6 % $ 98 $ 100 (2.8 )% (2.1 )% Excluding the net unfavorable currency impact, the decrease in comparable full service RevPAR in the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 was primarily driven by decreased ADR and occupancy in France, Switzerland, Turkey and the Middle East. These decreases were partially offset by increased ADR and occupancy in Eastern Europe and India. During the year ended December 31, 2016 , three properties were removed from the comparable EAME/SW Asia full service systemwide hotel results as a result of significant renovations and no properties were removed from the comparable EAME/SW Asia select service systemwide hotel results. EAME/SW Asia management and franchising revenues included $8 million net unfavorable currency impact in the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease in management, franchise and other fees was primarily due to an $8 million decrease in incentive fees and a $3 million decrease in base fees, primarily driven by 77 Table of Contents properties in Europe due to impacts from the stronger U.S. dollar and decreased performance at certain properties in the Middle East, partially offset by increased base fees at newly opened hotels. (Comparable Systemwide Hotels) Year Ended December 31, RevPAR Occupancy ADR 2015 2014 Better / (Worse) Better / (Worse) Constant $ 2015 2014 Change in Occ % pts 2015 2014 Better / (Worse) Better / (Worse) Constant $ EAME/SW Asia full service $ 136 $ 152 (10.3 )% 0.8 % 65.6 % 65.4 % 0.2 % $ 207 $ 231 (10.6 )% 0.5 % Excluding the net unfavorable currency impact, the increase in comparable systemwide EAME/SW Asia full service RevPAR in the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the same period in 2014 was driven by increased ADR across most areas of the region, partially offset by decreased ADR in the Middle East. During the year ended December 31, 2015, we removed one property that experienced a partial closure from the comparable EAME/SW Asia full service systemwide hotel results. EAME/SW Asia management and franchising segment Adjusted EBITDA. Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Better / (Worse) 2016 vs 2015 Better / (Worse) 2015 vs 2014 Segment Adjusted EBITDA $ 33 $ 33 $ 43 $ % $ (10 ) (23.3 )% Adjusted EBITDA included $1 million net unfavorable currency impact in the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 . The $2 million decrease in management, franchise and other fees was offset by a $2 million decrease in adjusted selling, general, and administrative expenses, due to lower payroll and related costs during the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 . Adjusted EBITDA decreased in the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014, which included $5 million net unfavorable currency impact. The decrease was driven by the aforementioned $10 million decrease in management and other fees during the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. Corporate and other. Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Better / (Worse) 2016 vs 2015 Better / (Worse) 2015 vs 2014 Corporate and other revenues $ 43 $ 40 $ 105 $ 3 7.5 % $ (65 ) (61.9 )% Corporate and other Adjusted EBITDA $ (139 ) $ (131 ) $ (103 ) $ (8 ) (6.1 )% $ (28 ) (27.2 )% Revenues increased in the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 driven by a $4 million increase related to our co-branded credit card, partially offset by a $1 million decrease in Hyatt Residence Club license fees. As a result of the sale of our vacation ownership business, other revenues decreased $48 million and other revenues from managed properties decreased $30 million during the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of $9 million during the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 due to growth of our co-branded credit card. We recorded $4 million in Hyatt Residence Club license fees during the year ended December 31, 2015. The decrease in Adjusted EBITDA in the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 was driven by a $12 million increase in promotional reward redemption expense as a result of increased costs related to our co-branded credit card, partially offset by the aforementioned $3 million increase in revenues and a $1 million decrease in adjusted selling, general, and administrative expenses. The decrease in adjusted selling, general, and administrative expenses was driven by a $10 million decrease in professional fees related to certain initiatives completed in 2015, partially offset by a $4 million increase in marketing expenses and a $3 million increase in payroll and related costs. Adjusted EBITDA decreased in the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 driven by the aforementioned $65 million decrease in revenues which was partially offset by a decrease in other costs from 78 Table of Contents managed properties, and other direct costs. The decrease in expenses was primarily driven by the sale of our vacation ownership business. Excluding the impact of the sale of our vacation ownership business, adjusted selling, general, and administrative costs increased $23 million in the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 due to a $12 million increase related to professional fees and technology costs, primarily due to certain initiatives completed during the year. Direct costs increased $8 million in the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 from our co-branded credit card driven by program growth. 79 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Measure Reconciliation The following charts illustrate Adjusted EBITDA by segment. For a discussion of our definition of Adjusted EBITDA, how we use it, why we present it and material limitations on its usefulness, see " Key Business Metrics Evaluated by Management." *Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA for the year ended December 31, 2016 included Corporate and other Adjusted EBITDA of $(139) million **Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA for the year ended December 31, 2015 included Corporate and other Adjusted EBITDA of $ (131) million *Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA for the year ended December 31, 2014 included Corporate and other Adjusted EBITDA of $(103) million 80 Table of Contents The table below provides a reconciliation of our net income attributable to Hyatt Hotels Corporation to EBITDA and a reconciliation of EBITDA to consolidated Adjusted EBITDA: Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Change 2016 vs 2015 Change 2015 vs 2014 Net income attributable to Hyatt Hotels Corporation $ 204 $ 124 $ 344 $ 80 64.5 % $ (220 ) (64.0 )% Interest expense 76 68 71 8 11.8 % (3 ) (4.2 )% Provision for income taxes 85 70 179 15 21.4 % (109 ) (60.9 )% Depreciation and amortization 342 320 354 22 6.9 % (34 ) (9.6 )% EBITDA 707 582 948 125 21.5 % (366 ) (38.6 )% Equity (earnings) losses from unconsolidated hospitality ventures (68 ) 64 (25 ) (132 ) (206.3 )% 89 356.0 % Stock-based compensation expense 25 23 49 2 8.7 % (26 ) (53.1 )% (Gains) losses on sales of real estate and other 23 (9 ) (311 ) 32 355.6 % 302 97.1 % Asset impairments 5 17 (5 ) (100.0 )% (12 ) (70.6 )% Other (income) loss, net (2 ) 5 17 (7 ) (140.0 )% (12 ) (70.6 )% Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 2 % (2 ) (100.0 )% Pro rata share of unconsolidated hospitality ventures Adjusted EBITDA 100 80 80 20 25.0 % % Adjusted EBITDA $ 785 $ 750 $ 777 $ 35 4.7 % $ (27 ) (3.5 )% Inflation We do not believe inflation had a material effect on our business in 2016 , 2015 or 2014 . Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview We finance our business primarily with existing cash, short-term investments and cash generated from our operations. As part of our business strategy, we also recycle capital by using net proceeds from dispositions to support our acquisitions and new investment opportunities. When appropriate, we borrow cash under our revolving credit facility or from other third-party sources, and may also raise funds by issuing debt or equity securities as necessary. We maintain a cash investment policy that emphasizes preservation of capital. At December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 , we had cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments of $538 million and $503 million , respectively. We believe our cash position, short-term investments and cash from operations, together with borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility and our access to the capital markets, will be adequate to meet all of our funding requirements and capital deployment objectives for the foreseeable future. We may, from time to time, seek to retire or purchase additional amounts of our outstanding equity and/or debt securities through cash purchases and/or exchanges for other securities, in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, including pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan. Such repurchases or exchanges, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. The amounts involved may be material. Recent Transactions Affecting Our Liquidity and Capital Resources During the years ended December 31, 2016 , December 31, 2015 , and December 31, 2014 several transactions impacted our liquidity. See " Sources and Uses of Cash." 81 Table of Contents Sources and Uses of Cash Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 489 $ 538 $ 473 Investing activities (380 ) (47 ) 373 Financing activities (96 ) (715 ) (607 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash 12 (4 ) (8 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 25 $ (228 ) $ 231 At December 31, 2016 , we had certain foreign subsidiaries with undistributed net earnings of $504 million that are indefinitely reinvested in jurisdictions outside the United States. Consistent with our capital redeployment strategy, we have expected foreign capital investment needs in excess of foreign cash available for redeployment at December 31, 2016 . Additionally, we did not repatriate any significant amounts of foreign earnings during the year ended December 31, 2016 . These earnings, to the extent of available cash, could become subject to additional taxes if remitted as dividends, loaned to a U.S. affiliate, or if we sold our interest in the affiliates; the resulting U.S. income tax liabilities could be offset, in whole or in part, by credits allowable for taxes paid to foreign jurisdictions. See Part IV, Item 15, "Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements" for further detail. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities decreased $49 million in the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 , as 2015 included the release of $82 million of restricted cash from one of our captive insurance companies which was invested in marketable securities. Additionally, the timing of certain accruals contributed to the decrease, which was partially offset by a decrease in income tax payments and the timing of insurance payments received from managed hotels. Cash provided by operating activities increased $65 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 . The increase was driven by restricted cash released from our captive insurance company and the timing of prepaid income tax payments, which was partially offset by the timing of certain accruals. Cash Flows from Investing Activities 2016 Activity: We acquired Thompson Miami Beach for approximately $238 million . Capital expenditures were $ 211 million (see " Capital Expenditures" below). We purchased our partners' interest in Andaz Maui at Wailea Resort and villas for $136 million , net of cash acquired. Additionally, prior to the acquisition we contributed $71 million to the unconsolidated hospitality venture and provided $37 million of financing receivables to our partners to repay the venture's third-party debt. Our partners repaid the financing receivables during 2016. We invested $33 million in unconsolidated hospitality ventures, excluding our contribution to Andaz Maui at Wailea Resort and villas discussed above. We acquired Royal Palms Resort and Spa for a net purchase price of approximately $86 million . We acquired land for $25 million for future development in Philadelphia. We sold Andaz 5th Avenue for approximately $240 million , net of closing costs and proration adjustments. We received distributions of $132 million from unconsolidated hospitality ventures. We sold the shares of the company that owns Hyatt Regency Birmingham (U.K.) for approximately $49 million , net of closing costs and proration adjustments. We released $29 million from restricted cash related to the finalization from the Canada Revenue Agency in connection with the 2014 disposition of Park Hyatt Toronto. 2015 Activity: Capital expenditures were $269 million (see " Capital Expenditures" below). 82 Table of Contents We had net purchases of $121 million of marketable securities and short-term investments related to Hyatt Gold Passport and our captive insurance companies. We invested a total of $37 million in investments which includes $35 million in unconsolidated hospitality ventures. We released $143 million from escrow to cash and cash equivalents related to release of proceeds from like-kind exchanges. We received net proceeds of $100 million from the maturity of time deposits. We sold Hyatt Regency Indianapolis for approximately $69 million. We received proceeds of $28 million from financing receivables. We released $19 million from restricted cash related to the development of a hotel in Brazil. Two unconsolidated hospitality ventures in which we hold or held ownership interests and are classified as equity method investments sold two select service properties to third parties for total proceeds of $16 million. We sold land and construction in progress for approximately $14 million. We sold a Hyatt House hotel for approximately $5 million. 2014 Activity: We sold a portfolio of 38 select service properties for approximately $581 million. We sold nine select service properties and one full service property for $310 million, net of closing costs and cash transferred. We sold Hyatt Residential Group for net proceeds of $220 million, which includes an interest in a joint venture that owns a vacation ownership property in Maui, Hawaii, as well as a full service hotel. We sold two full service properties in Canada for a net total of $204 million, of which $87 million was classified as restricted cash pending clearance from the Canada Revenue Agency pursuant to Withholding Tax Escrow Agreements. We sold Park Hyatt Washington for approximately $97 million. We released $74 million from restricted cash in conjunction with the 2013 sale of Hyatt Key West. We received proceeds of $56 million, which primarily related to two mezzanine loan receivables. We sold five Hyatt Place properties for $51 million. Four unconsolidated hospitality ventures in which we held ownership interests and that are classified as equity method investments sold four properties to third parties for $64 million, of which $30 million related to investing activities. We acquired Park Hyatt New York for $391 million, net of acquired cash of $1 million. Capital expenditures were $253 million (see " Capital Expenditures" below). We acquired Hyatt Regency Lost Pines Resort and Spa and adjacent land from an unconsolidated hospitality venture in which we hold an 8.2% interest for $157 million , net of acquired cash and cash equivalents of $7 million . We purchased a net total of $101 million of marketable securities and short-term investments. We invested a total of $114 million in investments which includes $98 million in unconsolidated hospitality ventures. Cash Flows from Financing Activities During the years ended December 31, 2016 , December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 , we repurchased 5,631,557 , 13,199,811 and 7,693,326 shares of common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $272 million , $715 million and $445 million, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2016 , we issued our 2026 Notes and received net proceeds of $396 million , after deducting discounts and offering expenses of approximately $4 million . During the year ended December 31, 2016 , all of our outstanding 2016 Notes were redeemed for $250 million. No notes were issued or redeemed in the years ended December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014. 83 Table of Contents During the year ended December 31, 2016 , we repaid the senior secured term loan of $64 million related to Hyatt Regency Lost Pines Resort and Spa. During the year ended December 31, 2016 , we drew $210 million and subsequently repaid $110 million on our revolving credit facility. During the year ended December 31, 2015, we did not draw on our revolving credit facility. During 2014, we drew and subsequently repaid $205 million on our revolving credit facility. During 2014, the Company exercised our purchase option to acquire Hyatt Regency Grand Cypress for $191 million. During the years ended December 31, 2016 , December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 , we drew $13 million, $12 million and $44 million, respectively, excluding the effects of currency, on a construction loan for the development of Grand Hyatt Rio de Janeiro. We define net debt as total debt less the total of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. We consider net debt and its components to be an important indicator of liquidity and a guiding measure of capital structure strategy. Net debt is a non-GAAP measure and may not be computed the same as similarly titled measures used by other companies. The following table provides a summary of our debt to capital ratios: December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Consolidated debt (1) $ 1,564 $ 1,370 Stockholders equity 3,903 3,991 Total capital 5,467 5,361 Total debt to total capital 28.6 % 25.6 % Consolidated debt (1) 1,564 1,370 Less: Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments 538 503 Net consolidated debt 1,026 867 Net debt to total capital 18.8 % 16.2 % (1) Excludes approximately $745 million and $692 million of our share of unconsolidated hospitality venture indebtedness at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 , respectively, substantially all of which is non-recourse to us and a portion of which we guarantee pursuant to separate agreements. In the event our investment in Playa is no longer accounted for under the equity method as discussed in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations" our share of unconsolidated hospitality venture indebtedness would decrease by approximately $200 million. Capital Expenditures We routinely make capital expenditures to enhance our business. We classify our capital expenditures into maintenance, enhancements to existing properties and investment in new properties under development or recently opened. We have been and will continue to be prudent with respect to our capital spending, taking into account our cash flows from operations. The following is a summary of our capital expenditures: Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Maintenance $ 68 $ 110 $ 102 Enhancements to existing properties 72 59 72 Investment in new properties 71 100 79 Total capital expenditures $ 211 $ 269 $ 253 The decrease in maintenance expenditures in 2016 compared to 2015 is driven by decreased technology spending and decreased spending at domestic full service properties. The increase in enhancements to existing properties is driven by increased renovation activity at domestic and international full service properties and expenditures related to our new corporate office. Expenditures related to new properties under development are primarily driven by construction spending related to Grand Hyatt Rio de Janeiro, which opened in early 2016, and two new select service hotels under development in the United States. The increase in maintenance expenditures in 2015 compared to 2014 is driven by increased spending at domestic and international full service properties partially offset by decreased spending related to owned select service hotels driven by dispositions during 2014. Expenditures related to investments in new properties in 2015 and 2014 were primarily driven by 84 Table of Contents construction spending on our development of Grand Hyatt Rio de Janeiro. Expenditures in 2014 also included spending related to owned select service hotels which were subsequently sold during 2014. The decrease in enhancements to existing properties from 2014 to 2015 was primarily driven by decreased renovation spending at owned international full service hotels and decreased spending at owned select service hotels driven by dispositions during 2014, partially offset by increased spending at certain full service properties in the United States. Capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $430 million in 2017. The increase from capital expenditures in 2016 is attributable to the following: approximately $55 million related to the redevelopment and repositioning of Miraval Group assets; approximately $65 million related to new corporate development projects which will be recycled over time; approximately $50 million related to our new corporate headquarters; and approximately $50 million related to increased levels of reinvestment in our existing owned and leased portfolio due to the timing of property renovations. Senior Notes The following table sets forth the principal, maturity and interest rate of our outstanding senior unsecured notes described below (collectively, the "Senior Notes"). Interest on the Senior Notes is payable semi-annually. Description Principal Amount 6.875% Senior Notes due 2019 $ 196 5.375% Senior Notes due 2021 250 3.375% Senior Notes due 2023 350 4.850% Senior Notes due 2026 400 Total $ 1,196 In the indenture that governs the Senior Notes, we agreed not to: create any liens on our principal properties, or on the capital stock or debt of our subsidiaries that own or lease principal properties, to secure debt without also effectively providing that the Senior Notes are secured equally and ratably with such debt for so long as such debt is so secured; or enter into any sale and leaseback transactions with respect to our principal properties. These limitations are subject to significant exceptions. The indenture also limits our ability to enter into mergers or consolidations or transfer all or substantially all of our assets unless certain conditions are satisfied. If a change of control triggering event occurs, as defined in the indenture governing the Senior Notes, we will be required to offer to purchase the Senior Notes at a price equal to 101% of their principal amount, together with accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase. We may also redeem some or all of the Senior Notes at any time prior to their maturity at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Senior Notes redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of redemption plus a make-whole amount. We are in compliance with all applicable covenants under the indenture governing our Senior Notes at December 31, 2016 . Revolving Credit Facility On January 6, 2014, we entered into a Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement with a syndicate of lenders that amended and restated our prior revolving credit facility to extend the facility's expiration from September 9, 2016 to January 4, 2019. The revolving credit facility is intended to provide financing for working capital and general corporate purposes, including commercial paper back-up and permitted investments and acquisitions. We had no outstanding undrawn letters of credit issued under our revolving credit facility (which would reduce the availability thereunder) at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 , respectively. At December 31, 2016 , we had available borrowing capacity of $1.4 billion under our revolving credit facility, net of the outstanding revolver balance. All of our borrowings under our revolving credit facility are guaranteed by substantially all of our material domestic subsidiaries, as defined in the revolving credit facility. All guarantees are guarantees of payment and performance and not of collection. Hotel Investors I, Inc. is an additional borrower under our revolving credit facility. 85 Table of Contents Interest rates on outstanding borrowings are either LIBOR-based or based on an alternate base rate, with margins in each case based on our credit rating or, in certain circumstances, our credit rating and leverage ratio. At December 31, 2016 , the interest rate for a one month LIBOR borrowing under our revolving credit facility would have been 1.872% , or LIBOR of 0.772% plus 1.100% . Borrowings under our revolving credit facility bear interest, at our option, at either one-, two-, three- or six-month LIBOR plus a margin ranging from 0.900% to 1.500% per annum (plus any mandatory costs, if applicable) or the alternative base rate plus a margin ranging from 0.000% to 0.500% per annum, in each case depending on our credit rating by either S&P or Moody or, in certain circumstances, our credit rating and leverage ratio. Borrowings under our swingline subfacility will bear interest at a per annum rate equal to the alternate base rate plus the applicable percentage for revolving loans that are alternate base rate loans. We are also required to pay letter of credit fees with respect to each letter of credit equal to the applicable margin for LIBOR on the face amount of each letter of credit. In addition, we must pay a fronting fee to the issuer of each letter of credit of 0.10% per annum on the face amount of such letter of credit. The revolving credit facility also provides for a facility fee ranging from 0.100% to 0.250% of the total commitment of the lenders under the revolving credit facility (depending on our credit rating by either S&P or Moody s). The facility fee is charged regardless of the level of borrowings. In the event we no longer have a credit rating from either S&P or Moody or our rating falls at or below BBB-/Baa3, with respect to borrowings under our revolving credit facility (a) such borrowings will bear interest at either LIBOR plus 1.300% or 1.500% per annum or the alternative base rate referenced above plus 0.300% or 0.500% per annum, in each case, depending on our leverage ratio and (b) the facility fee will be 0.200% or 0.250%. Our revolving credit facility contains a number of affirmative and restrictive covenants including limitations on the ability to place liens on our or our direct or indirect subsidiaries assets; to merge, consolidate and dissolve; to sell assets; to engage in transactions with affiliates; to change our or our direct or indirect subsidiaries fiscal year or organizational documents; and to make restricted payments. Our revolving credit facility also requires us to meet Leverage Ratio and Secured Funded Debt Ratio financial covenants in each case measured quarterly as defined in our revolving credit facility. The revolving credit facility contains certain covenants, including financial covenants that limit our maximum leverage (consisting of the ratio of Adjusted Total Debt to Consolidated EBITDA, each as defined in the revolving credit facility) to not more than 4.5 to 1, and limit our Secured Funded Debt Ratio (consisting of the ratio of Secured Funded Debt to Property and Equipment, each as defined in the revolving credit facility), to not more than 0.30 to 1. Our outstanding Senior Notes do not contain a corresponding financial covenant or a requirement that we maintain certain financial ratios. We currently satisfy all the covenants in our revolving credit facility and Senior Notes, and do not expect the covenants will restrict our ability to meet our anticipated borrowing and guarantee levels, or increase those levels should we decide to do so in the future. Letters of Credit We issue letters of credit either under the revolving credit facility or directly with financial institutions. We had a total of $230 million and $228 million in letters of credit issued directly with financial institutions outstanding at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 , respectively. These letters of credit had weighted average fees of 98 basis points and a range of maturity of up to five years at December 31, 2016 . Other Indebtedness and Future Debt Maturities Excluding the $1,196 million of Senior Notes, all other third-party indebtedness at December 31, 2016 was $368 million . At December 31, 2016 , $119 million of our outstanding debt will mature in the following twelve months. We believe we will have adequate liquidity, including our capacity to borrow under our revolving credit facility, and/or the ability to execute on refinancing or new issuances of debt to meet requirements for scheduled maturities. 86 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at December 31, 2016 : Payments Due by Period Total 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Thereafter Debt (1) $ 2,101 $ 191 $ 90 $ 285 $ 74 $ 323 $ 1,138 Capital lease obligations (1) 20 2 3 3 2 2 8 Operating lease obligations 614 41 35 39 29 26 444 Purchase obligations 79 79 Other long-term liabilities (2) 375 2 2 1 1 1 368 Total contractual obligations $ 3,189 $ 315 $ 130 $ 328 $ 106 $ 352 $ 1,958 (1) Includes principal as well as interest payments. Assumes constant foreign exchange rates at December 31, 2016 for floating rate debt and international debt. (2) Primarily consists of deferred compensation plan liabilities. Excludes $100 million in long-term tax positions due to the uncertainty related to the timing of the reversal of those positions. Guarantee Commitments The following table summarizes our guarantee commitments at December 31, 2016 : Amount of Guarantee Commitments Expiration by Period Total Amounts Committed 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Thereafter Performance guarantees (1) $ 346 $ 84 $ $ $ 234 $ $ 28 Debt repayment guarantees (2) 576 33 25 493 25 Total guarantee commitments $ 922 $ 117 $ $ 25 $ 727 $ 25 $ 28 (1) Consists of contractual agreements with third-party owners which require us to guarantee payments to the owners if specified levels of operating profit are not achieved by their hotels. (2) Consists of various debt repayment guarantees related to our unconsolidated hospitality ventures and certain managed hotels. Certain of these underlying debt agreements have extension periods which are not reflected in the table above. With respect to certain of these debt repayment guarantees we have agreements with either our unconsolidated hospitality venture partner, the respective hotel owners or other third parties which reduce our maximum guarantee which are not reflected in the table above. See Part IV, Item 15, "Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements." Investment Commitments The following table summarizes our investment commitments, which represent our commitment to fund contract acquisition costs and other investments such as unconsolidated hospitality ventures, at December 31, 2016 : Amount of Investment Commitments Expected Funding by Period Total Amounts Committed 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Thereafter Investment commitments $ 378 $ 137 $ 194 $ 29 $ 1 $ 1 $ 16 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Our off-balance sheet arrangements at December 31, 2016 included purchase obligations of $79 million , letters of credit of $230 million and surety bonds of $25 million . These amounts are discussed in " Sources and Uses of Cash Revolving Credit Facility and Letters of Credit", " Contractual Obligations" and Part IV, Item 15, "Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements." 87 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Preparing financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements, the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods and the related disclosures in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. A number of our accounting policies, which are described in Part IV, Item 15, "Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements", are critical due to the fact they involve a higher degree of judgment and estimates. Those accounting policies and other critical estimates are included below. As a result, these accounting policies could materially affect our financial position and results of operations. While we have used our best estimates based on the facts and circumstances available to us at the time, different estimates reasonably could have been used in the current period. In addition, changes in the accounting estimates that we use are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, which may have a material impact on the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations. Although we believe our estimates, assumptions and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments or conditions. Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting policies and estimates with the audit committee of the board of directors. Guarantees We enter into performance guarantees related to certain hotels we manage. We also enter into debt repayment guarantees with respect to our unconsolidated hospitality ventures and certain managed or franchised hotels. Upon inception of the guarantee, we record a stand ready to perform liability that is measured at fair value. In order to estimate fair value we use a Monte Carlo simulation to model the probability of possible outcomes. Determination of fair value requires we make certain assumptions and judgments based on our knowledge of the hospitality industry, market conditions, location of the property and specific information available at the time of the valuation. Goodwill We evaluate goodwill for impairment on an annual basis during the fourth quarter using balances at October 1 and at an interim date if indications of impairment exist. The Company has six reporting units on which we have a goodwill balance at December 31, 2016 . Determining whether or not indications of impairment exist requires us to apply judgment. The final determination of the occurrence of a triggering event is based on our knowledge of the hospitality industry, historical experience, location of the property, market conditions and specific information available at the time of the assessment. We realize, however, that the results of our analysis could vary from period to period depending on how our judgment is applied and the facts and circumstances available at the time of the analysis. Historically, changes in estimates used in the goodwill impairment evaluations have not resulted in impairment charges in subsequent periods as a result of changes in those estimates. However, changes in the economic and operating conditions impacting the assumptions and estimates could result in an impairment charge which could be material to our earnings. In the current period, a change in our assumptions and estimates that could reduce the fair value for one of our reporting units at December 31, 2016 by 4% would result in an impairment charge of up to $17 million. For all other reporting units, a change in our assumptions and estimates that could reduce the fair value of each reporting unit at December 31, 2016 by 10% would not result in an impairment charge. Business Combinations Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination are recorded at fair value as of the acquisition date. We use judgment to determine the fair value of the property acquired and to determine the amount of value to allocate to each identifiable asset or liability. Typically, tangible assets acquired include property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets may include a management agreement intangible, an indefinite-lived brand intangible, advanced bookings or goodwill. Changes to the significant assumptions or factors used to determine fair value could affect the measurement and allocation of fair value. 88 Table of Contents Property and Equipment and Definite-Lived Intangibles We evaluate property and equipment and definite-lived intangibles for impairment on a quarterly basis. If we determine there are indications of potential impairment, we perform a recoverability analysis comparing the projected undiscounted future cash flows of the assets to the net book value of the assets. If the projected undiscounted future cash flows are less than the net book value of the assets, a fair value analysis is prepared and the excess of the net book value over the estimated fair value is charged to asset impairments within our consolidated statements of income. When determining fair value, we use internally developed discounted future cash flow models, third-party appraisals and, if appropriate, current estimated net sales proceeds from pending offers. As part of the process detailed above we use judgment to determine whether indications of impairment exist. The determination of the occurrence of a triggering event is based on our knowledge of the hospitality industry, historical experience, location of the property, market conditions and property-specific information available at the time of the assessment. We realize, however, that the results of our analysis could vary from period to period depending on how our judgment is applied and the facts and circumstances available at the time of the analysis. Changes in economic and operating conditions impacting the judgments used could result in impairments to our long-lived assets in future periods, which could be material to our earnings. Historically, changes in estimates used in the property and equipment and definite-lived intangibles impairment assessment process have not resulted in impairment charges in subsequent periods as a result of changes made to those estimates. Available-for-Sale Debt Securities ("AFS") See Part IV, Item 15, "Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements" for our assessment process and further information regarding our estimates used in determining the fair value of AFS debt securities. Unconsolidated Hospitality Ventures We assess investments in unconsolidated hospitality ventures for impairment quarterly. We use judgment to determine whether or not there is an indication that a loss in value has occurred and whether a decline is deemed to be other than temporary. The determination of whether a loss in value has occurred is based on our knowledge of the hospitality industry, historical experience, location of the underlying venture property, market conditions and venture-specific information available at the time of the assessment. Changes in economic and operating conditions impacting these estimates and judgments could result in impairments to our investments in unconsolidated hospitality ventures in future periods. Historically, changes in estimates used in the unconsolidated hospitality ventures impairment assessment process have not resulted in impairment charges in subsequent periods as a result of changes made to those estimates. Income Taxes The objectives of accounting for income taxes are to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. Judgment is required in addressing the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our consolidated financial statements or tax returns (e.g., realization of deferred tax assets, changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof). In addition, we are subject to examination of our income tax returns by the IRS and other tax authorities. A change in the assessment of the outcomes of such matters could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. We evaluate tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return to determine whether they are "more likely than not" of being sustained assuming that its tax reporting positions will be examined by taxing authorities with full knowledge of all relevant information prior to recording the related tax benefit in the financial statements. If the position drops below the "more likely than not" standard, the benefit can no longer be recognized. Assumptions, judgment and the use of estimates are required in determining if the "more likely than not" standard has been met when developing the provision for income taxes. A change in the assessment of the "more likely than not" standard could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. Insurance Our insurance reserves are accrued based on estimates of the ultimate cost of claims that occurred during the covered period, which includes claims incurred but not reported, for which we will be responsible. These estimates are prepared with 89 Table of Contents the assistance of outside actuaries and consultants. Actual cost of claims may differ from our original estimates and could result in a material change to our liability. Hyatt Gold Passport Future Redemption Obligation We utilize an actuary to assist with our estimate of our future redemption obligation related to the Hyatt Gold Passport Program ("the Program"). Changes in the estimates used in the determination of the future redemption obligation, including the estimate of the "breakage" for points that will never be redeemed, could result in a material change to our future redemption obligation. At December 31, 2016 , the redemption liability related to the Program was $446 million . A 10% decrease in the breakage assumption would have resulted in an increase in the redemption liability of approximately $45 million at December 31, 2016. Future Adoption of Accounting Standards In May 2014, the FASB released Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09 ("ASU 2014-09"), Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) . ASU 2014-09 supersedes the revenue recognition requirements in Topic 605, Revenue Recognition, and provides a single, comprehensive revenue recognition model for contracts with customers. In August 2015, the FASB released Accounting Standards Update No. 2015-14 ("ASU 2015-14"), Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Deferral of the Effective Date . ASU 2015-14 delays the effective date of ASU 2014-09 by one year, making it effective for interim periods and fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted as of the original effective date under ASU 2014-09. See Part IV, Item 15, "Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements" for the Company current evaluation of the impact of adopting ASU 2014-09. 
