CIK: 15615
Company Name: MASTEC INC
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2023-03-16
Accession Number: 0000015615-23-000009


ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our business, financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. The discussion below contains forward-looking statements that are based upon our current expectations and is subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to inaccurate assumptions and known or unknown risks and uncertainties, including those identified in Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors. General Economic, Regulatory and Market Conditions We have experienced, and may continue to experience, direct and indirect negative effects on our business and operations from negative economic, regulatory and market conditions, including recent inflationary effects on fuel prices, labor and materials costs, rising interest rates, supply chain disruptions and uncertainty from potential recessionary effects that could negatively affect demand for future projects and/or delay existing project timing or cause increased project costs. We expect 2023 to continue to be a dynamic macroeconomic environment, with elevated levels of cost inflation and interest rates. The rise in interest rates and concerns regarding a possible economic recession could affect both our cost of capital 30 and that of our customers, as well as our customers plans for capital investments and ongoing maintenance expenditures, which could negatively affect demand for our services. We may also experience negative effects from possible longer-term changes in consumer and customer behavior resulting from the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. The extent to which general economic, regulatory and market conditions could affect our business, operations and financial results is uncertain as it will depend upon numerous evolving factors that we may not be able to accurately predict, and, therefore, any future impacts on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations cannot be quantified or predicted with specificity. We believe that our financial position, cash flows and operational strengths will enable us to manage the current uncertainties resulting from general economic, regulatory and market conditions. We carefully manage our liquidity and will continue to monitor any potential effects from changing economic, regulatory and market conditions on our financial results, cash flows and/or working capital and will take appropriate actions in efforts to mitigate any impacts. Business See Item 1. Business for discussion pertaining to our business and reportable segments. In 2021, we initiated a significant transformation of our end-market business operations to support the nation transition to low-carbon energy sources and position the company for expected future opportunities associated with this transition. This transformation has included significant business combination activity, including expansion of our scale and capacity in renewable energy, power delivery and heavy civil services, which activity has resulted in significant acquisition and integration costs in both our existing and recently acquired operations. Recent acquisitions . During 2022, we completed five acquisitions including: (i) within our Clean Energy and Infrastructure segment: IEA, a leading utility-scale infrastructure solutions provider with expertise in renewable energy and heavy civil projects, as well as rail and environmental remediation services; and a company that specializes in the production of concrete and aggregate products; (ii) within our Oil and Gas segment: an infrastructure construction company focusing on water, sewer and utility projects and with expertise in excavation and site work; (iii) within our Communications segment: a telecommunications company specializing in wireline services; and (iv) within our Power Delivery segment: a company specializing in the construction of overhead high voltage transmission lines. During 2021, we completed fourteen acquisitions including: (i) within our Power Delivery segment: HMG, an industry-leading utility services firm providing critical infrastructure design, construction and maintenance services to the power and renewables, telecommunications, gas distribution and pipeline services end-markets. In the first quarter of 2022, we integrated and began reporting the results of HMG within our Power Delivery, Communications and Oil and Gas segments, as appropriate, and began reporting HMG corporate functions within our Corporate results. See Note 13 - Segments and Related Information. Additionally, we acquired an electric utility distribution contractor; a company specializing in vegetation management services for the electric and telecommunications industries; and INTREN, a premier specialty utility contractor primarily providing electrical distribution network services under various multi-year master service agreements to some of the nation largest utilities, municipalities and cooperatives; (ii) within our Clean Energy and Infrastructure segment: a heavy civil infrastructure construction company focusing on transportation projects; and a heavy industrial general contractor with concrete, piping and electrical capabilities; (iii) within our Communications segment: a telecommunications company specializing in cabling, plant and other network services; a telecommunications and utility technical services company focusing on outside plant telecommunications engineering; a telecommunications and cable services provider; a utilities infrastructure company, providing power line construction and repair services; and business operations specializing in install-to-the-home services; and (iv) within our Oil and Gas segment: an infrastructure construction company focusing on water, sewer and utility projects, along with expertise in site work; a company specializing in environmental services for energy infrastructure and heavy civil projects; and a pipeline contractor focusing on integrity and maintenance work related to gas distribution infrastructure. During 2020, we completed five acquisitions. These acquisitions included the equity interests of two entities, one that specializes in heavy civil infrastructure that is included within our Clean Energy and Infrastructure segment, and one that specializes in utility service and telecommunications construction that is included within our Communications segment. We also acquired the assets of three entities, one that specializes in wireless telecommunications and one that specializes in install-to-the-home services, both of which are included within our Communications segment and one that specializes in electrical transmission services that is included within our Power Delivery segment. For additional information, see Note 3 - Acquisitions, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, Net in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated by reference. 31 Economic, Industry and Market Factors We closely monitor the effects of changes in economic and market conditions on our customers, including the potential effects of inflation, recessionary concerns, regulatory and climate-related matters. Changes in general economic and market conditions can affect demand for our customers products and services, which can increase or decrease our customers planned capital and maintenance budgets in certain end-markets. Market, regulatory and industry factors could affect demand for our services, or the cost to provide such services, including (i) changes to our customers capital spending plans, including any potential effects from inflation, recessionary concerns or supply chain issues, or from rising interest rates and/or public health matters; (ii) new or changing regulatory requirements, governmental policy changes, and customer or industry initiatives, including with respect to climate change, environmental or sustainability concerns, and/or from changes in governmental permitting; (iii) economic, political or other market developments or uncertainty, including access to capital for customers in the industries we serve and/or the ongoing military conflict in Ukraine; (iv) changes in technology, tax and other incentives; and (v) mergers, acquisitions or other business transactions among the customers we serve. Changes in demand for, and fluctuations in market prices for, oil, gas and other energy sources can affect demand for our services. In particular, such changes can affect the level of activity in energy generation projects, including from renewable energy sources, as well as pipeline construction and carbon capture projects. The availability of transportation and transmission capacity can also affect demand for our services, including energy generation, electric grid and pipeline construction projects. These fluctuations, as well as the highly competitive nature of our industry, can result in changes in the levels of activity, the project mix, and/or the profitability of the services we provide. In the face of increased pricing pressure or other market developments, we strive to maintain our profit margins through productivity improvements, cost reduction programs and/or business streamlining efforts. Market developments, including rising fuel, labor and materials costs, have had, and could continue to have, a negative effect on our profitability, to the extent that we have not been, and in the future are not, able to pass these costs through to our customers. While we actively monitor economic, industry and market factors that could affect our business, we cannot predict the effect that changes in such factors could have on our future results of operations, liquidity and cash flows, and we may be unable to fully mitigate, or benefit from, such changes. Effect of Seasonality and Cyclical Nature of Business Our revenue and results of operations can be subject to seasonal and other variations. These variations are influenced by weather, customer spending patterns, bidding seasons, project schedules, holidays, regulatory matters and/or timing, in particular, for large non-recurring projects, and the effects of market uncertainty or disruptions, as described within Economic, Industry and Market Factors, above. Typically, our revenue is lowest at the beginning of the year and during the winter months because cold, snowy or wet conditions can delay projects. Revenue is generally higher during the summer and fall months due to increased demand for our services when favorable weather conditions exist in many of the regions in which we operate, but continued cold and wet weather can often affect second quarter productivity. In the fourth quarter, many projects tend to be completed by customers seeking to spend their capital budgets before the end of the year, which generally has a positive effect on our revenue. However, the holiday season and inclement weather can cause delays, which can reduce revenue and increase costs on affected projects. Any quarter may be positively or negatively affected by adverse or unusual weather patterns and/or the effects of climate-related matters, including warm winter weather, excessive rainfall, flooding or natural catastrophes such as wildfires, hurricanes or other severe weather, making it difficult to predict quarterly revenue and margin variations. Additionally, our industry can be highly cyclical. Fluctuations in end-user demand within the industries we serve, or in the supply of services within those industries, can affect demand for our services. As a result, our business may be adversely affected by industry declines or by delays in new projects. Variations in project schedules or unanticipated changes in project schedules, in particular, in connection with large construction and installation projects, can create fluctuations in revenue, which may adversely affect us in a given quarter, even if not for the full year. In addition, revenue from master service and other service agreements, while generally predictable, can be subject to volatility, including from changes in customer demand, customer revenue mix, or project timing. The financial condition of our customers and their access to capital; variations in project margins; regional, national and global economic, political and market conditions; regulatory or environmental influences, including climate-related matters; and acquisitions, dispositions or strategic arrangements can also materially affect quarterly results in a given period. Accordingly, our operating results in any particular period may not be indicative of the results that can be expected for any other period. Understanding Our Results of Operations Revenue. We primarily provide engineering, building, installation, maintenance and upgrade services to our customers. We derive revenue from projects performed under master and other service agreements as well as from contracts for specific projects requiring the construction and installation of an entire infrastructure system or specified units within an infrastructure system. See Item 1. Business for discussion of our business and revenue-generating activities and Comparison of Fiscal Year Results below for revenue results by reportable segment. Costs of Revenue, Excluding Depreciation and Amortization. Costs of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization, consists principally of salaries, employee incentives and benefits, subcontracted services, equipment and facility rentals, repairs, fuel and other equipment expenses, materials costs, parts, supplies and insurance expenses. Project profit is calculated by subtracting a project costs of revenue, including project-related depreciation, from project revenue. Project profitability and corresponding project margins will generally be reduced if actual costs to complete a project exceed our project cost estimates and we are unable to pass the increased costs through to our customers. Estimated losses on contracts, or the excess of estimated costs to complete a contract over the contract remaining revenue, are recognized in the period in which such losses are determined. Factors impacting our costs of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization, and project profit, include: Project Mix. The mix of revenue derived from the projects we perform impacts overall project margins, as margin opportunities can vary by project. For example, installation work, which is often performed on a fixed price basis, has a higher level of margin risk than maintenance or upgrade work, which is often performed under pre-established or time and materials pricing arrangements. As a result, changes in project mix between installation work and maintenance or upgrade services can affect our project margins in a given period. Our project mix by industry can also affect our overall margins, as project margins can vary by industry and over time. 32 Seasonality, Weather and Geographic Mix. Seasonal patterns, which can be affected by weather conditions, can have a significant effect on project margins. Adverse or favorable weather conditions can affect project margins in a given period. For example, extended periods of rain or snowfall can negatively affect revenue and project margins due to reduced productivity from projects being delayed or temporarily halted. Conversely, when weather remains dry and temperatures are accommodating, more work can be done, sometimes with less cost, which can favorably affect project margins. In addition, the mix of business conducted in different geographic areas can affect project margins due to the particular characteristics of the physical locations where work is being performed, such as mountainous or rocky terrain versus open terrain. Site conditions, including unforeseen underground conditions, can also affect project margins. Price and Performance Risk . Overall project margins may fluctuate due to project pricing and job conditions, changes in the cost of labor and materials, crew availability, job productivity and work volume. Job productivity can be affected by quality of the work crew and equipment, the quality of engineering specifications and designs, availability of skilled labor, environmental or regulatory factors, customer decisions or delays and crew productivity. Crew productivity can be influenced by weather conditions and job terrain, such as whether project work is in a right of way that is open or one that has physical obstructions or legal encumbrances. Subcontracted Resources . Our use of subcontracted resources in a given period is dependent upon activity levels and the amount and location of existing in-house resources and capacity. Project margins on subcontracted work can vary from those on self-perform work. As a result, changes in the availability and mix of subcontracted resources versus self-perform work can affect our overall project margins. Material versus Labor Costs. In many cases, our customers are responsible for supplying their own materials on projects; however, under certain contracts, we may agree to provide all or part of the required materials. Project margins are typically lower on projects where we furnish a significant amount of materials due to the fact that margins on materials are generally lower than margins on labor costs. Therefore, increases in the percentage of work with significant materials requirements could decrease our overall project margins. General and Administrative Expense. General and administrative expenses consist principally of compensation and benefit expenses, travel expenses and related costs for our finance, benefits, insurance and risk management, legal, facilities, information technology services and executive functions. General and administrative expenses also include non-cash stock-based compensation expense, outside professional and accounting fees, expenses associated with information technology used in administration of the business, gains or losses from the disposal of property and equipment, acquisition costs, including certain costs related to acquisition integration, business streamlining, and, from time to time, certain restructuring charges. Interest Expense, Net. Interest expense, net, consists of contractual interest expense on outstanding debt obligations, amortization of deferred financing costs and other interest expense, including interest expense related to financing arrangements and mandatorily redeemable non-controlling interests. Interest expense is offset, in part, by interest earned on cash and other investments. Other Income or Expense. Other income or expense consists primarily of gains or losses from changes to estimated Earn-out accruals, certain legal/other settlements, certain purchase accounting adjustments, and gains or losses, or changes in estimated recoveries, from certain assets, including financial instruments, and certain liabilities. Financial Performance Metrics Our senior management team regularly reviews certain key financial performance metrics within our business, including: revenue and profitability on an overall basis, by reportable segment and for selected projects; revenue by customer and by contract type; costs of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization; general and administrative expenses; depreciation and amortization; interest expense, net; other income or expense; and provision for income taxes; earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( EBITDA ) and adjusted EBITDA, as defined in our non-U.S. GAAP financial measures discussion following the Comparison of Fiscal Year Results section below; earnings per share and adjusted earnings per share, as defined in our non-U.S. GAAP financial measures discussion; days sales outstanding, net of contract liabilities, and days payable outstanding; interest and debt service coverage ratios; and liquidity and cash flows. Management analysis includes detailed discussions of proposed investments in new business opportunities or property and equipment, productivity improvement efforts, acquisition integration efforts, strategic arrangement opportunities and working capital and other capital management efforts. Measuring these key performance indicators is an important tool used by management to make informed and timely operational decisions, which we believe can help us improve our performance. Critical Accounting Estimates This discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, including the potential future effects of macroeconomic trends and events, such as inflation and interest rate levels; supply chain disruptions; uncertainty from potential recessionary effects; climate-related matters; market, industry and regulatory factors, including permitting issues; global events, such as the ongoing military conflict in Ukraine; and public health matters. These estimates form the basis for making judgments about our operating results and the carrying values of 33 assets and liabilities, that are not readily apparent from other sources. Given that management estimates, by their nature, involve judgments regarding future uncertainties, actual results could differ materially from these estimates if conditions change or if certain key assumptions used in making these estimates ultimately prove to be inaccurate. Our accounting policies and critical accounting estimates are reviewed periodically by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. We believe that our accounting estimates pertaining to: the recognition of revenue and project profit or loss, which we define as project revenue, less project costs of revenue, including project-related depreciation, in particular, on construction contracts accounted for under the cost-to-cost method, for which the recorded amounts require estimates of costs to complete and the amount and probability of variable consideration included in the contract transaction price; fair value estimates, including those related to acquisitions, valuations of goodwill, intangible assets and acquisition-related contingent consideration and other liabilities; equity investments; income taxes; self-insurance liabilities; and litigation and other contingencies, are the most critical in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements as they are important to the portrayal of our financial condition and require significant or complex judgment and estimates on the part of management. Actual results could, however, vary materially from these accounting estimates. Refer to Note 1 - Business, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated by reference, for a more detailed discussion of our significant accounting policies and critical accounting estimates. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue from contracts with customers when, or as, control of promised services and goods is transferred to customers. The amount of revenue recognized reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled in exchange for the services and goods transferred. We primarily recognize revenue over time utilizing the cost-to-cost measure of progress. Contracts. We derive revenue primarily from construction projects performed under: (i) master and other service agreements, which generally provide a menu of available services in a specific geographic territory that are utilized on an as-needed basis, and are typically priced using either a time and materials or a fixed price per unit basis; and (ii) contracts for specific projects requiring the construction and installation of an entire infrastructure system or specified units within an infrastructure system, which are subject to multiple pricing options, including fixed price, unit price, time and materials, or cost plus a markup. The total contract transaction price and cost estimation processes used for recognizing revenue over time under the cost-to-cost method is based on the professional knowledge and experience of our project managers, engineers, operational and financial professionals. Management reviews estimates of total contract transaction price and total project costs on an ongoing basis. Changes in job performance, job conditions and management assessment of expected variable consideration are factors that influence estimates of the total contract transaction price, total costs to complete those contracts and our profit recognition. Changes in these factors could result in revisions to revenue in the period in which the revisions are determined, which could materially affect our consolidated results of operations for that period. Provisions for losses on uncompleted contracts are recorded in the period in which such losses are determined. For the year ended December 31, 2022, project profit was affected by less than 5% as a result of changes in contract estimates included in projects that were in process as of December 31, 2021. Revenue recognized for the year ended December 31, 2022 as a result of changes in total contract transaction price estimates, including from variable consideration, from performance obligations satisfied or partially satisfied in prior periods, totaled approximately $13.8 million. Performance Obligations. A performance obligation is a contractual promise to transfer a distinct good or service to a customer. The transaction price of a contract is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when or as the performance obligation is satisfied. Our contracts often require significant services to integrate complex activities and equipment into a single deliverable, and are therefore generally accounted for as a single performance obligation, even when delivering multiple distinct services. Contract amendments and change orders, which are generally not distinct from the existing contract, are typically accounted for as a modification of the existing contract and performance obligation. The majority of our performance obligations are completed within one year. When more than one contract is entered into with a customer on or close to the same date, management evaluates whether those contracts should be combined and accounted for as a single contract, as well as whether those contracts should be accounted for as one, or more than one, performance obligation. This evaluation requires significant judgment and is based on the facts and circumstances of the various contracts. Variable Consideration. Transaction prices for our contracts may include variable consideration, which comprises items such as change orders, claims and incentives. Management estimates variable consideration for a performance obligation utilizing estimation methods that we believe best predict the amount of consideration to which we will be entitled. Variable consideration is included in the estimated transaction price if it is probable that when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved, there will not be a significant reversal of the cumulative amount of revenue that has been recognized. Management estimates of variable consideration and the determination of whether to include estimated amounts in transaction prices are based largely on engineering studies and legal advice, past practices with the customer, specific discussions, correspondence or preliminary negotiations with the customer and all other relevant information that is reasonably available at the time of the estimate. The effect of variable consideration on the transaction price of a performance obligation is typically recognized as an adjustment to revenue on a cumulative catch-up basis, as such variable consideration, which typically pertains to changed conditions and scope, is generally for services encompassed under the existing contract. To the extent unapproved change orders, claims and other variable consideration reflected in transaction prices are not resolved in our favor, or to the extent incentives reflected in transaction prices are not earned, there could be reductions in, or reversals of, previously recognized revenue. As of December 31, 2022, we included approximately $271 million of change orders and/or claims in transaction prices for certain contracts that were in the process of being resolved in the ordinary course of business, including through negotiation, arbitration and other proceedings. These transaction price adjustments, when earned, are included within contract assets or accounts receivable, net of allowance, as appropriate. As of December 31, 2022, these change orders and/or claims primarily related to certain projects in our Clean Energy and Infrastructure and Power Delivery segments and include amounts related to our recently acquired businesses. We actively engage with our customers to complete 34 the final approval process, and generally expect these processes to be completed within one year. Amounts ultimately realized upon final agreement by customers could be higher or lower than such estimated amounts. Business Combinations The determination of the fair value of net assets acquired in a business combination and estimates of acquisition-related contingent consideration, which, for our acquisitions primarily consist of earn-out liabilities, requires estimates and judgments of future cash flow expectations for the acquired business and the related identifiable tangible and intangible assets. Fair values of net assets acquired are calculated using expected cash flows and industry-standard valuation techniques. Fair values of earn-out liabilities are estimated using income approaches such as discounted cash flows or option pricing models. Due to the time required to gather and analyze the necessary data for each acquisition, U.S. GAAP provides a measurement period of up to one year in which to finalize these fair value determinations. During the measurement period, preliminary fair value estimates may be revised if new information is obtained about the facts and circumstances existing as of the date of acquisition, or based on the final net assets and working capital of the acquired business, as prescribed in the applicable purchase agreement. Such adjustments may result in the recognition of, or an adjustment to the fair values of, acquisition-related assets and liabilities and/or consideration paid, and are referred to as measurement period adjustments. Measurement period adjustments are recorded to goodwill. Other revisions to fair value estimates for acquisitions are reflected as income or expense, as appropriate. See Note 3 - Acquisitions, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, Net in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated by reference, for information pertaining to acquisition-related fair value adjustments. Significant changes in the assumptions or estimates used in the underlying valuations, including the expected profitability or cash flows of an acquired business, could materially affect our operating results in the period such changes are recognized. Goodwill and Intangible Assets We have goodwill and intangible assets that have been recorded in connection with our acquisitions of businesses. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized, but instead are tested for impairment at least annually. Finite-lived intangible assets are amortized over their useful lives, which are generally based on contractual or legal rights, in a manner consistent with the pattern in which the related benefits are expected to be consumed. We review long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. We perform our annual impairment tests of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets during the fourth quarter of each year, and on a quarterly basis, we monitor these assets for potential indicators of impairment. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at the reporting unit level. A reporting unit is an operating segment, or one level below the operating segment, which is referred to as a component. We combine three of the components of our Power Delivery operating segment into one reporting unit. All of our other components each comprise one reporting unit. Following is a summary of goodwill and intangible assets by segment as of December 31, 2022, which includes indefinite-lived intangible assets within the Clean Energy and Infrastructure segment totaling approximately $34.5 million: Communications Clean Energy and Infrastructure Oil and Gas Power Delivery Total Goodwill (in millions) $ 606.1 $ 703.3 $ 465.5 $ 270.1 $ 2,045.0 Percentage of total 29.6 % 34.4 % 22.8 % 13.2 % 100.0 % Other intangible assets, net (in millions) $ 65.0 $ 402.5 $ 85.6 $ 393.2 $ 946.3 Percentage of total 6.9 % 42.5 % 9.0 % 41.6 % 100.0 % For the year ended December 31, 2022, we performed a qualitative assessment for our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets by examining relevant events and circumstances that could have an effect on their fair values, such as: macroeconomic conditions, including inflation and interest rates, industry and market conditions, including the potential effects of longer-term changes in consumer behavior from regulatory, climate-related, or other factors, entity-specific events, financial performance and other relevant factors or events that could affect earnings and cash flows. Based on the results of the qualitative assessments for the year ended December 31, 2022, we performed quantitative testing for (i) four reporting units within our Oil and Gas operating segment; (ii) one reporting unit within our Power Delivery operating segment ; and (iii) one reporting unit within our Clean Energy and Infrastructure operating segment. Factors considered by management in determining the reporting units for which quantitative assessments were performed included the effects of current or expected changes in market conditions on the future business outlook , including the potential future effects of macroeconomic, industry and market trends and events, as described above, as well as the effects of uncertainty from potential recessionary concerns; success rates on new project awards; and levels of operating activity. For the reporting units for which quantitative testing was performed, we estimated their fair values using a combination of market and income approaches using Level 3 inputs. Under the market approach, fair values were estimated using published market multiples for comparable companies and applying them to revenue and EBITDA. Under the income approach, a discounted cash flow methodology was used, considering: (i) management estimates, such as projections of revenue, operating costs and cash flows, taking into consideration historical and anticipated financial results; (ii) general economic and market conditions; and (iii) the impact of planned business and operational strategies. We believe the assumptions used in our quantitative goodwill impairment tests are reflective of the risks inherent in the business models of our reporting units and within our industry. Estimated discount rates were determined using the weighted average cost of capital for each reporting unit at the time of the analysis, taking into consideration the risks inherent within each reporting unit individually. Significant assumptions used in testing the reporting units included terminal values based on a terminal growth rate of 3.0%, five to nine years of discounted cash flows prior to the terminal value, and a 35 discount rate of 13.0%. Based on the results of the quantitative assessment, the estimated fair values of all but one reporting unit within our Oil and Gas operating segment were determined to substantially exceed their carrying values. One reporting unit in our Oil and Gas operating segment, which had approximately $37.5 million of goodwill, had an estimated fair value that exceeded its carrying value by approximately 14%. A 100 basis point increase in the discount rate would not have resulted in any of the reporting units carrying values exceeding their fair values. As of December 31, 2022, we believe that the recorded balances of goodwill and intangible assets are recoverable; however, significant changes in the assumptions or estimates used in our analyses, such as market conditions or a reduction in profitability and/or cash flows, and/or for intangible assets, changes in other asset characteristics, could result in non-cash goodwill and/or intangible asset impairment charges in future periods. See Note 1 - Business, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies and Note 3 - Acquisitions, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, Net in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements, which are incorporated by reference, for additional discussion. Equity Investments Our investment and strategic arrangements include equity interests in various business entities and participation in contractual joint ventures. Equity investments, other than those accounted for as equity method investments or those that are proportionately consolidated, are measured at fair value if their fair values are readily determinable. Equity investments that do not have readily determinable fair values are measured at cost, adjusted for changes from observable market transactions, if any, less impairment, which is referred to as the adjusted cost basis . This impairment evaluation considers a variety of factors, including the earnings performance of the related investments, as well as the economic environment and market conditions in which the investees operate. Significant changes in any of these factors could result in impairment charges in future periods. Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes uses an effective tax rate based on annual pre-tax income, statutory tax rates, permanent tax differences and tax planning opportunities in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Significant factors that can affect our annual effective tax rate include our assessment of certain tax matters, the location and amount of taxable earnings, changes in certain non-deductible expenses and expected credits. Although we believe our provision for income taxes is correct and the related assumptions are reasonable, the final outcome of tax matters could be materially different from what we currently anticipate, which could result in significant costs or benefits to us. See Note 12 - Income Taxes in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated by reference, for additional discussion. In the ordinary course of business, there is inherent uncertainty in quantifying income tax positions. We assess our income tax positions and record tax benefits for all years subject to examination based on our evaluation of the facts, circumstances and information available at the reporting date. For those tax positions where it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, we have recognized the largest amount of tax benefit with a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. For those income tax positions where it is not more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, no tax benefit has been recognized in our financial statements. We file income tax returns in numerous tax jurisdictions, including U.S. federal, most U.S. states and certain foreign jurisdictions. Although we believe our calculations for tax returns are correct and the positions taken thereon are reasonable, the final outcome of income tax examinations could be materially different from our expectations and the estimates that are reflected in our consolidated financial statements, which could have a material effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity in the related period. Self-Insurance We are self-insured up to the amount of our deductible for our insurance policies. Liabilities under our insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimate of the ultimate liability for claims, with assistance from third-party actuaries. The determination of such claims and expenses and the appropriateness of the related liability is reviewed and updated quarterly. These insurance liabilities are, however, difficult to assess and estimate due to many factors, the effects of which are often unknown or difficult to estimate, including the severity of an injury, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties and the number of incidents not reported. Accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends. Although we believe such accruals are adequate, a change in experience or actuarial assumptions could materially affect our results of operations in a particular period. Litigation and Contingencies Accruals for litigation and contingencies are based on our assessment, including advice of legal counsel, of the expected outcome of litigation or other dispute resolution proceedings and/or the expected resolution of contingencies. Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability of loss and the determination as to whether the amount is reasonably estimable. Accruals are based on information available at the time of the assessment due to the uncertain nature of such matters. As additional information becomes available, we reassess potential liabilities related to pending claims and litigation and may revise our previous estimates, which could materially affect our results of operations in a given period. 2023 Outlook We believe that we are well-positioned to benefit from significant opportunities in each of our business segments. Please see Item 1 Business - Industry Trends for additional information on the outlook for the industries we serve and a detailed discussion of our market opportunities. Our future results could be adversely affected by the matters discussed in the Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements, Item 1A. Risk Factors and Item 3. Legal Proceedings of this Form 10-K. 36 Comparison of Fiscal Year Results The following table, which may contain slight summation differences due to rounding, reflects our consolidated results of operations in dollar and percentage of revenue terms for the periods indicated (dollar amounts in millions). Our consolidated results of operations are not necessarily comparable from period to period due to the effect of recent acquisitions and certain other items, which are described in the comparison of results section below. In this discussion, acquisition results are defined as results from acquired businesses for the first twelve months following the dates of the respective acquisitions, with the balance of results for a particular item attributed to organic activity. For the Years Ended December 31, 2022 2021 2020 Revenue $ 9,778.0 100.0 % $ 7,951.8 100.0 % $ 6,321.0 100.0 % Costs of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization 8,586.3 87.8 % 6,805.7 85.6 % 5,270.9 83.4 % Depreciation 371.2 3.8 % 345.6 4.3 % 258.8 4.1 % Amortization of intangible assets 135.9 1.4 % 77.2 1.0 % 38.9 0.6 % General and administrative expenses 559.4 5.7 % 307.0 3.9 % 303.0 4.8 % Interest expense, net 112.3 1.1 % 53.4 0.7 % 59.6 0.9 % Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, net (28.8) (0.3) % (33.8) (0.4) % (29.7) (0.5) % Loss on extinguishment of debt % % 5.6 0.1 % Other income, net (1.4) (0.0 )% (33.4) (0.4) % (11.3) (0.2) % Income before income taxes $ 43.1 0.4 % $ 430.1 5.4 % $ 425.2 6.7 % Provision for income taxes (9.2) (0.1) % (99.3) (1.2) % (102.5) (1.6) % Net income $ 33.9 0.3 % $ 330.7 4.2 % $ 322.7 5.1 % Net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests 0.5 0.0 % 1.9 0.0 % (0.1) (0.0 )% Net income attributable to MasTec, Inc. $ 33.4 0.3 % $ 328.8 4.1 % $ 322.8 5.1 % We review our operating results by reportable segment. See Note 13 - Segments and Related Information in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated by reference. Our reportable segments are: (1) Communications; (2) Clean Energy and Infrastructure; (3) Oil and Gas; (4) Power Delivery and (5) Other. Management review of segment results includes analyses of trends in revenue, EBITDA and EBITDA margin. EBITDA for segment reporting purposes is calculated consistently with our consolidated EBITDA calculation. See the discussion of our non-U.S. GAAP financial measures, including certain adjusted non-U.S. GAAP measures, as described below, following the comparison of results discussion below. The following table presents revenue, EBITDA and EBITDA margin by segment for the periods indicated (dollar amounts in millions): For the Years Ended December 31, Revenue EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Segment: 2022 2021 2020 2022 (a) 2021 (a) 2020 Communications $ 3,233.7 $ 2,551.1 $ 2,512.2 $ 327.1 10.1 % $ 269.5 10.6 % $ 270.1 10.7 % Clean Energy and Infrastructure 2,618.6 1,865.0 1,526.9 102.8 3.9 % 75.0 4.0 % 80.4 5.3 % Oil and Gas 1,219.6 2,540.5 1,789.8 163.5 13.4 % 557.6 21.9 % 510.9 28.5 % Power Delivery 2,725.2 1,016.8 506.5 202.9 7.4 % 68.0 6.7 % 14.9 2.9 % Other 0.0 0.6 31.8 NM 33.8 NM 30.7 NM Eliminations (19.1) (21.6) (15.0) Segment Total $ 9,778.0 $ 7,951.8 $ 6,321.0 $ 828.1 8.5 % $ 1,003.8 12.6 % $ 907.0 14.3 % Corporate (165.6) (97.5) (124.5) Consolidated Total $ 9,778.0 $ 7,951.8 $ 6,321.0 $ 662.5 6.8 % $ 906.3 11.4 % $ 782.5 12.4 % NM - Percentage is not meaningful (a) For the year ended December 31, 2022, Communications, Clean Energy and Infrastructure, Oil and Gas and Power Delivery EBITDA included $4.7 million, $6.4 million, $8.0 million and $39.0 million, respectively, of acquisition and integration costs related to our recent acquisitions, and Corporate EBITDA included $27.9 million of such costs. For the year ended December 31, 2021, Corporate EBITDA included $3.6 million of such acquisition and integration costs. 37 Comparison of Years Ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 Revenue . For the year ended December 31, 2022, consolidated revenue totaled $9,778 million as compared with $7,952 million in 2021, an increase of $1,826 million, or 23%. Revenue increased in our Power Delivery segment by $1,708 million, or 168%, in our Clean Energy and Infrastructure segment by $754 million, or 40%, and in our Communications segment by $683 million, or 27%, whereas revenue decreased in our Oil and Gas segment by $1,321 million, or 52%. Acquisitions contributed $2,990 million in increased revenue for the year ended December 31, 2022 and organic revenue decreased by approximately $1,164 million, or 14.6%, as compared with 2021. Communications Segment . Communications revenue was $3,234 million in 2022, as compared with $2,551 million in 2021, an increase of $683 million, or 27%. Acquisitions contributed $151 million of increased revenue for the year ended December 31, 2022 and organic revenue increased by approximately $531 million, or 21%, as compared with 2021. The increase in organic revenue was driven primarily by higher levels of wireless and wireline project activity. Clean Energy and Infrastructure Segment . Clean Energy and Infrastructure revenue was $2,619 million in 2022, as compared with $1,865 million in 2021, an increase of $754 million, or 40%. For the year ended December 31, 2022, acquisitions contributed $621 million of increased revenue, and organic revenue increased by approximately $133 million, or 7% as compared with 2021, due primarily to higher levels of project activity and mix. Oil and Gas Segment . Oil and Gas revenue was $1,220 million in 2022, as compared with $2,541 million in 2021, a decrease of approximately $1,321 million, or 52%. Organic revenue decreased by approximately $1,764 million, or 69%, as compared with 2021, and acquisitions contributed $443 million of increased revenue for the year ended December 31, 2022. The decrease in organic revenue was primarily due to a decrease in large diameter project activity, as well as lower levels of activity for other types of projects. Power Delivery Segment . Power Delivery revenue was $2,725 million in 2022, as compared with $1,017 million in 2021, an increase of $1,708 million, or 168%. Acquisitions contributed $1,775 million of increased revenue for the year ended December 31, 2022, whereas organic revenue decreased by approximately $67 million, or 7%, as compared with 2021, due primarily to project timing and mix of project activity. Costs of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization. Costs of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization, increased by approximately $1,781 million, or 26%, to $8,586 million in 2022 from $6,806 million in 2021. Higher levels of revenue contributed an increase of $1,563 million in costs of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization, and reduced productivity contributed an increase of approximately $218 million. Costs of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization, as a percentage of revenue increased by approximately 220 basis points, from 85.6% of revenue in 2021 to approximately 87.8% of revenue in 2022. The basis point increase was primarily due to segment revenue mix, including lower levels of revenue for our oil and gas operations, and also includes the effects of inflation on labor, fuel and materials costs for our projects, other project inefficiencies, certain acquisition and integration costs and project start-up costs, offset, in part, by project efficiencies in our power delivery operations. Depreciation. Depreciation was $371 million, or 3.8% of revenue, in 2022, as compared with $346 million, or 4.3% of revenue in 2021, an increase of $26 million, or 7%. Acquisitions contributed $110 million of depreciation for the year ended December 31, 2022, whereas organic depreciation decreased by $85 million, or approximately 24%, due primarily to lower levels of capital investments related to pipeline project activity. As a percentage of revenue, depreciation decreased by approximately 50 basis points, due primarily to higher levels of revenue. Amortization of intangible assets. Amortization of intangible assets was $136 million, or 1.4% of revenue in 2022, as compared with $77 million, or 1.0% of revenue, for the same period in 2021, an increase of approximately $59 million, or 76%. Acquisitions contributed $75 million of intangible asset amortization for the year ended December 31, 2022, whereas organic amortization decreased by approximately $16 million, or 21%, due primarily to the effects of timing of amortization for certain intangible assets. As a percentage of revenue, amortization of intangible assets increased by approximately 40 basis points. General and administrative expenses . General and administrative expenses were $559 million, or 5.7%, of revenue in 2022, as compared with $307 million, or 3.9% of revenue in 2021, an increase of $252 million, or 82%. Acquisitions, including certain acquisition and integration costs, contributed approximately $191 million of general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2022, and organic general and administrative expenses, inclusive of certain acquisition and integration costs, increased by approximately $62 million, or 20%, as compared with 2021. The increase in organic general and administrative costs was due primarily to the effect of prior year recoveries of provisions for credit losses and increases in travel expense, professional fees, information technology and other administrative expenses, as well as the effects of timing of legal and settlement matters, offset, in part, by an increase in gains on sales of assets, net, and a reduction in compensation expense. Overall, general and administrative expenses, including approximately $52 million of acquisition and integration costs, increased by approximately 190 basis points as a percentage of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2022 as compared with 2021. Interest expense, net. Interest expense, net of interest income, was $112 million, or 1.1% of revenue in 2022, as compared with $53 million, or 0.7% of revenue in 2021, for an increase of approximately $59 million, or 110%. The increase in interest expense, net, related primarily to credit facility activity and term loans, which increased by $44 million due to higher average balances, including from indebtedness incurred in connection with acquisition and share repurchase activity, as well as higher average interest rates as compared with the same period in 2021, due primarily to higher market interest rates. In addition, interest expense from senior notes increased by $5 million due to the assumption, exchange and issuance of an aggregate principal amount of $300 million of 6.625% senior notes in connection with the fourth quarter 2022 acquisition of IEA. See Note 7 - Debt in the notes to the consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated by reference, for details of the IEA 6.625% senior notes and related debt exchange transaction. In addition, interest expense from accounts receivable financing arrangements increased by approximately $6 million due to a combination of higher average balances from increased levels of activity and higher average interest rates. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates. Equity in earnings or losses of unconsolidated affiliates includes our share of income or losses from equity investees. For the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, equity in earnings from unconsolidated affiliates, net totaled $29 million 38 and $34 million, respectively, and related primarily to our investments in the Waha JVs, offset, in part, by equity in losses, net, from our investments in certain other entities. Other income, net. Other income, net, was $1 million in 2022, as compared with other income, net, of $33 million in 2021. For the year ended December 31, 2022, other income, net, included approximately $1 million of income, net, from changes to estimated Earn-out accruals, $2 million of income from changes in the fair value of additional contingent payments to the former owners of an acquired business, $7 million of income from insurance and other settlements, and approximately $5 million of other miscellaneous income, net, offset, in part, by approximately $7 million of expense from changes in the fair value of our investment in AVCT, net of income from strategic arrangements, $3 million of expense from changes in the fair value of IEA warrants and $5 million of acquisition and integration and business streamlining costs. For the year ended December 31, 2021, other income, net, included approximately $28 million of income, net, from changes to estimated Earn-out accruals, approximately $3 million of bargain purchase gain from a 2021 acquisition and approximately $7 million of income from legal settlements, offset, in part, by $7 million of expense from changes in the fair value of certain assets and investments, net of income from strategic arrangements. Provision for income taxes. Income tax expense was $9 million in 2022, as compared with $99 million of income tax expense in 2021. Pre-tax income decreased to $43 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 from $430 million in 2021. For the year ended December 31, 2022, our effective tax rate decreased to 21.3% from 23.1% in 2021. Our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2022 included benefits from adjustments related to the finalization of our 2021 tax returns and from the true-up of certain prior year non-deductible expenses, as well as a benefit related to the vesting of share-based payment awards. For the year ended December 31, 2021, our effective tax rate included a benefit from adjustments related to the finalization of our 2020 tax returns and from the settlement of our 2016 and 2017 IRS examinations, as well as a benefit from share-based compensation. Analysis of EBITDA by Segment Communications Segment. EBITDA for our Communications segment was $327 million, or 10.1% of revenue, in 2022, as compared with $270 million, or 10.6% of revenue in 2021, for an increase in EBITDA of approximately $58 million, or 21%. Higher levels of revenue contributed an increase in EBITDA of approximately $72 million. As a percentage of revenue, EBITDA decreased by approximately 40 basis points, or $14 million, due primarily to project timing delays and inefficiencies, including the effects of inflation on labor, fuel and material costs, as well as the effects of project start-up and acquisition and integration costs. Clean Energy and Infrastructure Segment. EBITDA for our Clean Energy and Infrastructure segment was $103 million, or 3.9% of revenue, in 2022, as compared with $75 million, or 4.0% of revenue in 2021, for an increase in EBITDA of approximately $28 million, or 37%. Higher levels of revenue contributed an increase in EBITDA of approximately $30 million. As a percentage of revenue, EBITDA decreased by approximately 10 basis points, or $2 million, due to project inefficiencies, including the effects of inflation on labor, fuel and material costs, as well as the effects of project timing delays and acquisition and integration costs, and mix. Oil and Gas Segment. EBITDA for our Oil and Gas segment was $164 million, or 13.4% of revenue in 2022, as compared with $558 million, or 21.9% of revenue in 2021, a decrease of approximately $394 million, or 71%. Lower levels of revenue contributed a decrease in EBITDA of $290 million and reduced productivity contributed a decrease of approximately $104 million. EBITDA margins decreased by approximately 850 basis points, due primarily to reduced efficiencies from lower levels of revenue, as well as the effects of inflation on labor, fuel and material costs and acquisition and integration costs. Power Delivery Segment. EBITDA for our Power Delivery segment was approximately $203 million, or 7.4% of revenue in 2022, as compared with $68 million, or 6.7% of revenue in 2021, an increase in EBITDA of approximately $135 million, or 199%. Higher levels of revenue contributed an increase in EBITDA of approximately $114 million. As a percentage of revenue, EBITDA increased by approximately 80 basis points, or $21 million, primarily due to project efficiencies resulting from higher levels of revenue and project mix, partially offset by the effects of inflation on labor, fuel and material costs as well as acquisition and integration costs. Other Segment. EBITDA from Other businesses totaled $32 million and $34 million for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, and related primarily to equity in earnings from our investments in the Waha JVs and, in 2022, project gains from a proportionately consolidated non-controlled joint venture, offset, in part, by equity in losses from other investments. Corporate. Corporate EBITDA was negative $166 million in 2022 as compared with EBITDA of negative $98 million in 2021, for a decrease in EBITDA of approximately $68 million. Acquisitions, including certain acquisition and integration costs, contributed approximately $33 million of Corporate expenses for the year ended December 31, 2022. Corporate EBITDA in 2022 also included approximately $7 million of expense from changes in the fair value of certain investments, net of income from strategic arrangements, $3 million of expense from changes in the fair value of IEA warrants, offset, in part, by $2 million of income from changes in the fair value of additional contingent payments to the former owners of an acquired business and $1 million of income, net, from changes to estimated Earn-out accruals. Corporate EBITDA in 2021 included approximately $28 million of income, net, from changes to estimated Earn-out accruals and a bargain purchase gain of approximately $3 million from a 2021 acquisition, offset, in part, by approximately $7 million of expense from changes in the fair value of certain investments, net of income from strategic arrangements. Corporate expenses in 2022 not related to the above-described items increased by approximately $4 million as compared with 2021, due primarily to acquisition and integration costs, increases in information technology, travel and other administrative expenses, offset, in part, by the effects of timing of legal and settlement matters. Comparison of Years Ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 Refer to Item 7, Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Comparison of Years Ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 of the Company 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K ( the 2021 Form 10-K ) for a comparison of results for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, which discussion is incorporated herein by reference. Foreign Operations 39 Our foreign operations are primarily in Canada and, to a far lesser extent, in Mexico, the Caribbean and India. See Note 13 - Segments and Related Information in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated by reference. Non-U.S. GAAP Financial Measures As appropriate, we supplement our reported U.S. GAAP financial information with certain non-U.S. GAAP financial measures, including earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization ( EBITDA ), adjusted EBITDA ( Adjusted EBITDA ), adjusted net income ( Adjusted Net Income ) and adjusted diluted earnings per share ( Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share ). These adjusted non-U.S. GAAP measures exclude, as applicable to the particular periods, non-cash stock-based compensation expense; acquisition and integration costs related to our 2022 and 2021 acquisitions; fair value gains or losses, net, on an investment; project results from a proportionately consolidated non-controlled Canadian joint venture that was underway at the time of acquisition of the Canadian business, which joint venture was managed by a third party and automatically terminated upon completion of the project; the bargain purchase gain from a 2021 acquisition; and the loss on debt extinguishment from the redemption of our 4.875% Senior Notes; and, for Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share, amortization of intangible assets, the effects of changes in statutory tax rates and the tax effects of the adjusted items. These definitions of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are not the same as in our Credit Facility or in the indenture governing our senior notes; therefore, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA as presented in this discussion should not be used for purposes of determining our compliance with the covenants contained in our debt instruments. We use EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, as well as Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share to evaluate our performance, both internally and as compared with our peers, because these measures exclude certain items that may not be indicative of our core operating results, as well as items that can vary widely across different industries or among companies within the same industry. We believe that these adjusted measures provide a baseline for analyzing trends in our underlying business. Non-cash stock-based compensation expense can be subject to volatility from changes in the market price per share of our common stock or variations in the value and number of shares granted, and amortization of intangible assets is subject to acquisition activity, which varies from period to period. In 2021, we initiated a significant transformation of our end-market business operations to position the company for expected future opportunities. This transformation has included significant acquisition activity to expand our scale and capacity in renewable energy, power delivery and heavy civil services, and has resulted in significant acquisition and integration costs. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2021, due to the extent of the acquisition costs related to these recent acquisitions and the extent of the integration efforts that have been, and will continue to be, required in connection with such acquisitions, we are excluding acquisition and integration costs in calculating Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted Net Income for these acquisitions. In addition, beginning in the second quarter of 2022, we are excluding fair value gains or losses, net, for our investment in AVCT, a company in which we currently have no active involvement, in calculating our adjusted results, and prior periods have been updated to conform with this presentation. We believe that fair value gains or losses for this investment, which vary from period to period based on fluctuations in the market price of the investment, are not indicative of our core operations, and that this presentation improves comparability of our results with those of our peers. We exclude intangible asset amortization, acquisition costs and selected purchase accounting adjustments, including the bargain purchase gain from a 2021 acquisition, from our adjusted measures due to their non-operational nature and inherent volatility, as acquisition activity varies from period to period. We also believe that this presentation is common practice in our industry and improves comparability of our results with those of our peers. Each company definitions of these adjusted measures may vary as they are not standardized and should be used in light of the provided reconciliations. We believe that these non-U.S. GAAP financial measures provide meaningful information and help investors understand our financial results and assess our prospects for future performance. Because non-U.S. GAAP financial measures are not standardized, it may not be possible to compare these financial measures with other companies non-U.S. GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names. These financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, as substitutes for, or alternative measures of, reported net income or diluted earnings per share, and should be viewed in conjunction with the most comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures and the provided reconciliations thereto. We believe these non-U.S. GAAP financial measures, when viewed together with our U.S. GAAP results and related reconciliations, provide a more complete understanding of our business. We strongly encourage investors to review our consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and not rely on any single financial measure. The following table presents a reconciliation of net income to EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA in dollar and percentage of revenue terms, for the periods indicated. The tables below (dollar amounts in millions) may contain slight summation differences due to rounding. 40 For the Years Ended December 31, EBITDA Reconciliation: 2022 2021 2020 Net income $ 33.9 0.3 % $ 330.7 4.2 % $ 322.7 5.1 % Interest expense, net 112.3 1.1 % 53.4 0.7 % 59.6 0.9 % Provision for income taxes 9.2 0.1 % 99.3 1.2 % 102.5 1.6 % Depreciation 371.2 3.8 % 345.6 4.3 % 258.8 4.1 % Amortization of intangible assets 135.9 1.4 % 77.2 1.0 % 38.9 0.6 % EBITDA $ 662.5 6.8 % $ 906.3 11.4 % $ 782.5 12.4 % Non-cash stock-based compensation expense 27.4 0.3 % 24.8 0.3 % 21.9 0.3 % Acquisition and integration costs 86.0 0.9 % 3.6 0.0 % % Losses (gains), net, on fair value of investment 7.7 0.1 % 7.8 0.1 % (10.1) (0.2) % Project results from non-controlled joint venture (2.8) (0.0 )% % % Bargain purchase gain (0.2) (0.0 )% (3.5) (0.0 )% % Loss on extinguishment of debt % % 5.6 0.1 % Adjusted EBITDA $ 780.6 8.0 % $ 939.1 11.8 % $ 799.9 12.7 % A reconciliation of EBITDA and EBITDA margin to Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin by segment for the periods indicated is as follows: For the Years Ended December 31, 2022 2021 2020 EBITDA $ 662.5 6.8 % $ 906.3 11.4 % $ 782.5 12.4 % Non-cash stock-based compensation expense (a) 27.4 0.3 % 24.8 0.3 % 21.9 0.3 % Acquisition and integration costs (b) 86.0 0.9 % 3.6 0.0 % % Losses (gains), net, on fair value of investment (a) 7.7 0.1 % 7.8 0.1 % (10.1) (0.2) % Project results from non-controlled joint venture (c) (2.8) (0.0 )% % % Bargain purchase gain (a) (0.2) (0.0 )% (3.5) (0.0 )% % Loss on extinguishment of debt (a) % % 5.6 0.1 % Adjusted EBITDA $ 780.6 8.0 % $ 939.1 11.8 % $ 799.9 12.7 % Segment: Communications $ 331.8 10.3 % $ 269.5 10.6 % $ 270.1 10.7 % Clean Energy and Infrastructure 109.2 4.2 % 75.0 4.0 % 80.4 5.3 % Oil and Gas 171.5 14.1 % 557.6 21.9 % 510.9 28.5 % Power Delivery 241.9 8.9 % 68.0 6.7 % 14.9 2.9 % Other 29.0 NM 33.8 NM 30.7 NM Segment Total $ 883.4 9.0 % $ 1,003.9 12.6 % $ 907.0 14.3 % Corporate (102.8) (64.8) (107.1) Adjusted EBITDA $ 780.6 8.0 % $ 939.1 11.8 % $ 799.9 12.7 % NM - Percentage is not meaningful (a) Non-cash stock-based compensation expense, bargain purchase gain from a fourth quarter 2021 acquisition, losses (gains), net, on the fair value of our investment in AVCT and loss on extinguishment of debt are included within Corporate EBITDA. (b) For the year ended December 31, 2022, Communications, Clean Energy and Infrastructure, Oil and Gas and Power Delivery EBITDA included $4.7 million, $6.4 million, $8.0 million and $39.0 million respectively, of acquisition and integration costs related to our recent acquisitions, and Corporate EBITDA included $27.9 million of such costs. For the year ended December 31, 2021, Corporate EBITDA included $3.6 million of such acquisition and integration costs. (c) Project results from a non-controlled joint venture are included within Other segment results. The table below, which may contain slight summation differences due to rounding, reconciles reported net income and reported diluted earnings per share, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures, to Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share. 41 For the Years Ended December 31, 2022 2021 2020 Net Income (in millions) Diluted Earnings Per Share Net Income (in millions) Diluted Earnings Per Share Net Income (in millions) Diluted Earnings Per Share Reported U.S. GAAP measure $ 33.9 $ 0.42 $ 330.7 $ 4.45 $ 322.7 $ 4.38 Adjustments: Amortization of intangible assets 135.9 1.78 77.2 1.04 38.9 0.53 Non-cash stock-based compensation expense 27.4 0.36 24.8 0.34 21.9 0.30 Acquisition and integration costs 86.0 1.13 3.6 0.05 Losses (gains), net, on fair value of investment 7.7 0.10 7.8 0.11 (10.1) (0.14) Project results from non-controlled joint venture (2.8) (0.04) Bargain purchase gain (0.2) (0.00) (3.5) (0.05) Loss on extinguishment of debt 5.6 0.08 Total adjustments, pre-tax $ 254.1 $ 3.34 $ 110.0 $ 1.49 $ 56.3 $ 0.76 Income tax effect of adjustments (a) (58.6) (0.77) (27.4) (0.37) (12.7) (0.17) Statutory tax rate effects (b) 5.5 0.07 6.7 0.09 2.5 0.03 Adjusted non-U.S. GAAP measure $ 234.8 $ 3.05 $ 420.0 $ 5.65 $ 368.9 $ 5.01 (a) Represents the tax effects of the adjusted items that are subject to tax, including the tax effects of non-cash stock-based compensation expense, including from the vesting of share-based payment awards. Tax effects are determined based on the tax treatment of the related item, the incremental statutory tax rate of the jurisdictions pertaining to the adjustment, and their effects on pre-tax income. For the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, our consolidated effective tax rates, as reported, were 21.3%, 23.1% and 24.1%, respectively, and as adjusted, were 21.0%, 22.2%, and 23.4%, respectively. (b) For the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, includes the effect of changes in certain state tax rates. Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations, availability under our Credit Facility and our cash balances. Our primary liquidity needs are for working capital, capital expenditures, insurance and performance collateral in the form of cash and letters of credit, debt service, income taxes, earn-out obligations and equity and other investment funding requirements. We also evaluate opportunities for strategic acquisitions, investments and other arrangements from time to time, and we may consider opportunities to borrow additional funds, which may include borrowings under our Credit Facility or debt issuances, or to refinance, extend the terms of our existing indebtedness or retire outstanding debt, or to repurchase additional shares of our outstanding common stock under share repurchase authorizations, any of which may require our use of cash. See Note 7 - Debt in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K, which is incorporated by reference, for details of our recent debt transactions, including the amendment of our senior credit facility, the assumption of IEA 6.625% senior notes and related debt exchange transaction and our new term loan facility. Capital Expenditures . For the year ended December 31, 2022, we spent approximately $263 million on capital expenditures, or $182 million, net of asset disposals, and incurred approximately $207 million of equipment purchases under finance leases. We estimate that we will spend approximately $150 million on capital expenditures, or approximately $100 million, net of asset disposals, in 2023, and we expect to incur approximately $150 million of equipment purchases under finance leases. Actual capital expenditures may increase or decrease in the future depending upon business activity levels, as well as ongoing assessments of equipment lease versus purchase decisions based on short and long-term equipment requirements. Acquisitions and Earn-Out Liabilities . We typically utilize cash for business acquisitions and other strategic arrangements, and for the year ended December 31, 2022, we used $636 million of cash for this purpose. In addition, in most of our acquisitions, we have agreed to make future payments to the sellers that are contingent upon the future earnings performance of the acquired businesses, which we also refer to as Earn-out payments. Earn-out payments may be paid in cash or, under specific circumstances, MasTec common stock, or a combination thereof, at our option. The estimated total value of future Earn-outs as of December 31, 2022 was approximately $127 million. Of this amount, approximately $38 million represents the liability for earned amounts. The remainder is management estimate of Earn-out liabilities that are contingent upon future performance. For the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, we made payments of $38 million, $47 million and $50 million, respectively, related to our Earn-out liabilities. As of December 31, 2022, certain IEA warrants remained outstanding in connection with the acquisition of IEA. The estimated fair value of the outstanding IEA warrants totaled approximately $3.1 million, which amount includes the value of approximately 26,500 shares of MasTec common stock. Additionally, our acquisition of HMG provides for certain additional payments to be made to the sellers if certain acquired receivables are collected, which we refer to as the Additional Payments. Pursuant to the terms of the HMG purchase agreement, a portion of the Additional Payments will be made in cash, with the remainder due in shares of MasTec common stock. An Additional Payment of approximately $29.4 million was made in May 2022, which payment was composed of approximately $18 million in cash and 133,157 shares of MasTec common stock. As of December 31, 2022, the estimated fair value of remaining Additional Payments was approximately $37 million and includes the effect of an unrealized fair value gain of approximately $1 million related to the contingent shares. The number of shares that would be paid in connection with the remaining Additional Payment as of December 31, 2022 is approximately 170,000 shares. In addition, the HMG purchase agreement provided for a customary net working capital adjustment, which adjustment was resolved in the second quarter of 2022 for a reduction of 42 approximately $15 million in acquisition consideration. Income Taxes . Tax payments, net of tax refunds, totaled $9 million, $69 million and $65 million for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020. The year-to-year changes in tax payments largely correspond to the changes in taxable net income for the respective years. Working Capital. We need working capital to support seasonal variations in our business, primarily due to the effect of weather conditions on external construction and maintenance work and the spending patterns of our customers, both of which influence the timing of associated spending to support related customer demand. Working capital needs are generally higher during the summer and fall months due to increased demand for our services when favorable weather conditions exist in many of the regions in which we operate. Conversely, working capital needs are typically converted to cash during the winter months. These seasonal trends, however, can be offset by changes in the timing of projects, which can be affected by project delays or accelerations and/or other factors that may affect customer spending. Working capital requirements also tend to increase when we commence multiple projects or particularly large projects because labor, including subcontractor costs, and certain other costs, including inventory, typically become payable before the receivables resulting from work performed are collected. The timing of billings and project close-outs can contribute to changes in unbilled revenue. As of December 31, 2022, we expect that substantially all of our unbilled receivables will be billed to customers in the normal course of business within the next twelve months. Total accounts receivable, which consists of contract billings, unbilled receivables and retainage, net of allowance, increased to $3.1 billion as of December 31, 2022 from $2.2 billion as of December 31, 2021, due primarily to higher levels of revenue from our recent acquisitions, as well as the timing of project billings and collections. See below for discussion of our days sales outstanding, net of contract liabilities, which we refer to as days sales outstanding, or DSO. Our payment billing terms are generally net 30 days, and some of our contracts allow our customers to retain a portion of the contract amount (generally, from 5% to 10% of billings) until the job is completed. As part of our ongoing working capital management practices, we evaluate opportunities to improve our working capital cycle time through contractual provisions and certain financing arrangements. For certain customers, we maintain inventory to meet the materials requirements of the contracts. Occasionally, certain of our customers pay us in advance for a portion of the materials we purchase for their projects or allow us to pre-bill them for materials purchases up to specified amounts. Vendor terms are generally 30 days. Our agreements with subcontractors often contain a pay-if-paid provision, whereby our payments to subcontractors are made only after we are paid by our customers. Summary of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources Including our current assessment of general economic conditions on our results of operations and capital resource requirements, we anticipate that funds generated from operations, borrowings under our credit facilities and our cash balances will be sufficient to meet our working capital requirements, anticipated capital expenditures, debt service obligations, insurance and performance collateral requirements, letter of credit needs, earn-out obligations, required income tax payments, acquisition, strategic arrangement and investment funding requirements, share repurchase activity and other liquidity needs for the next twelve months and the foreseeable future. Sources and Uses of Cash As of December 31, 2022, we had approximately $1,363 million in working capital, defined as current assets less current liabilities, as compared with $1,089 million as of December 31, 2021, an increase of approximately $274 million. Cash and cash equivalents totaled $371 million as of December 31, 2022 and $361 million as of December 31, 2021, for an increase of $10 million. Sources and uses of cash are summarized below (in millions): For the Years Ended December 31, 2022 2021 2020 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 352.3 $ 793.1 $ 937.3 Net cash used in investing activities $ (821.2) $ (1,357.2) $ (216.6) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ 480.9 $ 501.9 $ (369.9) Operating Activities. Cash flow from operations is primarily influenced by changes in the timing of demand for our services and operating margins, but can also be affected by working capital needs associated with the various types of services we provide. Working capital is affected by changes in total accounts receivable, prepaid expenses and other current assets, accounts payable and payroll tax payments (including the effect of deferrals of, or payments for, previously deferred amounts associated with COVID-19 relief provisions), accrued expenses and contract liabilities, all of which tend to be related. These working capital items are affected by changes in revenue resulting from the timing and volume of work performed, variability in the timing of customer billings and collections of receivables, as well as settlement of payables and other obligations. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $352 million, as compared with $793 million in 2021, for a decrease in cash provided by operating activities of approximately $441 million, due primarily to a decrease in net income as well as the effect of revenue growth and timing-related working capital changes in assets and liabilities, net, including from our recent acquisitions and from higher levels of purchasing activity in 2022 to secure inventory and materials to address concerns resulting from inflation and supply chain disruptions. The above described items, which resulted in a reduction in our operating cash flows, were offset, in part, by a net increase in expenses that reconcile net income to operating cash flows, including amortization of intangible assets. Days sales outstanding, net of contract liabilities ( DSO ) is calculated as total accounts receivable, net of allowance, less contract liabilities, divided by average daily revenue for the most recently completed quarter as of the balance sheet date. Our DSO was 83 as of December 31, 2022, and as of December 31, 2021, our DSO was 98. Our DSO as of December 31, 2021 includes the effect of acquisitions that were completed in December 2021, for which the related accounts receivable, net of allowance, less contract liabilities is included in our consolidated financial results, but for which there is not a full quarter revenue included in the results for the year ended December 31, 2021. 43 Our DSOs can fluctuate from period to period due to timing of billings, billing terms, collections and settlements, timing of project close-outs and retainage collections, changes in project and customer mix and the effect of working capital initiatives. DSOs as of December 31, 2022 reflect the effects of timing of ordinary course billing and collection activities, as well as the effect of lower levels of organic revenue with fixed amounts of project retainage for certain projects. Other than matters subject to litigation, we do not anticipate material collection issues related to our outstanding accounts receivable balances, nor do we believe that we have material amounts due from customers experiencing financial difficulties. Based on current information, we expect to collect substantially all of our outstanding accounts receivable balances within the next twelve months. Investing Activities. Net cash used in investing activities decreased by approximately $536 million to $821 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 from $1,357 million in 2021. We completed five acquisitions during the year ended December 31, 2022, for which we paid $636 million in cash, net of cash acquired, a decrease of approximately $609 million as compared with 2021, in which period we completed 14 acquisitions and paid $1,245 million. Capital expenditures totaled $263 million, or $182 million, net of asset disposals, in 2022, as compared with $170 million, or $105 million, net of asset disposals, in 2021, an increase in cash used in investing activities of approximately $77 million, due to acceleration of capital expenditures in 2022 to address supply chain disruption concerns. Payments for other investments, which relate primarily to investments in certain equity investees as well as payments for split dollar life insurance agreements, decreased from $10 million in 2021 to $4 million in 2022. Financing Activities. Net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $481 million, as compared with $502 million in 2021, a decrease of approximately $21 million. In 2022, we drew $700 million in new term loans in connection with the completion of the IEA acquisition, and had $124 million of borrowings, net of repayments on our credit facility, as compared with $691 million of borrowings, net of repayments on our credit facility in 2021, for an increase in cash provided by financing activities of approximately $133 million from credit facility and term loan activity, net. This increase in cash provided by financing activities was offset, in part, by an increase in payments of finance lease obligations of approximately $23 million in 2022 as compared with 2021. Payments of acquisition-related contingent consideration included within financing activities totaled $35 million in 2022 as compared with $22 million in 2021, for an increase in cash used in financing activities of $13 million. Total payments of acquisition-related contingent consideration, including payments in excess of acquisition-date liabilities, which are classified within operating activities, totaled $38 million in 2022 as compared with $47 million in 2021. In addition, cash payments for acquisition-related contingent assets related to the December 2021 acquisition of HMG totaled approximately $18 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. Other financing activities, net, which includes the effects of other borrowing and transaction-related activities, including payments of financing costs, totaled payments of $23 million in 2022 as compared with proceeds of $6 million in 2021. Share repurchases totaled $81 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, whereas there were no share repurchases in 2021, for an increase in cash used in financing activities in 2022. Additionally, payments to holders of our non-controlling interests decreased by $8 million in 2022 as compared with 2021, for a decrease in cash used in financing activities. Senior Credit Facility We have a senior unsecured credit facility (the Credit Facility ) that matures on November 1, 2026. The Credit Facility was amended on September 1, 2022 to, among other changes, increase the aggregate borrowing commitments from approximately $2.0 billion to $2.25 billion, which amount is composed of $1.9 billion of revolving commitments, an increase of $250 million from the previous Credit Facility, and a Term Loan with an original principal amount of $350 million. The amendment also released the guarantees that existed under the previous Credit Facility and removed the requirement that certain of our subsidiaries guarantee the obligations thereunder. The other terms and conditions of the Credit Facility remain substantially the same. Additionally, the amendment eliminated the use of LIBOR as a basis to determine certain interest rates and transitioned to SOFR for such purposes. Aggregate outstanding revolving borrowings under the Credit Facility as of December 31, 2022 totaled approximately $896 million. Borrowings under the amended Credit Facility are used for working capital requirements, capital expenditures and other corporate purposes, including potential acquisitions, equity investments or other strategic arrangements, and/or the repurchase or prepayment of indebtedness, among other corporate borrowing requirements, including potential share repurchases. We are dependent upon borrowings and letters of credit under our Credit Facility to fund our operations. Should we be unable to comply with the terms and conditions of our Credit Facility, we would be required to obtain modifications to the Credit Facility or obtain an alternative source of financing to continue to operate, neither of which may be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The Credit Facility is subject to certain provisions and covenants, as more fully described in Note 7 - Debt in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated by reference. 4.50% Senior Notes We have $600 million of 4.50% Senior Notes due August 15, 2028 (the 4.50% Senior Notes ). Pursuant to the terms of the indenture governing the 4.50% Senior Notes, the existing guarantees on the 4.50% Senior Notes were released substantially concurrent with th e September 1, 2022 amendment to the Credit Facility, which, as discussed above, released the guarantors under the previous Credit Facility. Prior to the amendment, the 4.50% Senior Notes were fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior unsecured, joint and several basis by certain of the Company wholly-owned domestic restricted subsidiaries. Additionally, the indenture that governs the 4.50% Senior Notes contains a provision whereby certain restrictions that generally limit the ability of the Company and certain of its subsidiaries to (i) pay dividends, (ii) acquire shares of capital stock and (iii) make certain investments, are permanently terminated upon the 4.50% Senior Notes receiving investment grade ratings by Moody Investors Service, Inc. and Standard & Poor Ratings Group. In the first quarter of 2022, the 4.50% Senior Notes received such investment grade ratings, and, as a result, the aforementioned restrictions were permanently terminated. The other terms and conditions of the 4.50% Senior Notes remain unchanged. The 4.50% Senior Notes are subject to certain provisions and covenants, as more fully described in Note 7 - Debt in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated by reference. 6.625% Senior Notes 44 Upon consummation of the October 2022 acquisition of IEA, we assumed $300.0 million of IEA 6.625% senior unsecured notes that mature on August 15, 2029 (the 6.625% IEA Senior Notes ), of which approximately $74.9 million in principal amount of 6.625% IEA Senior Notes were exchanged for the same principal amount of 6.625% MasTec Senior Notes in a private exchange offer and consent solicitation to certain holders of 6.625% IEA Senior Notes, as described below. Collectively, the 6.625% IEA Senior Notes and the 6.625% MasTec Senior Notes are referred to as the 6.625% Senior Notes. Interest on the 6.625% IEA Senior Notes is payable semiannually in arrears on February 15 and August 15 of each year. Prior to the acquisition of IEA by MasTec, the 6.625% IEA Senior Notes were guaranteed by the IEA Guarantors. Effective October 7, 2022, concurrent with the acquisition of IEA and the repayment in full and termination of IEA credit facility, which resulted in the release of such guarantors under the prior credit facility, the IEA Guarantors of the 6.625% IEA Senior Notes were automatically and unconditionally released and discharged from their obligations under the IEA Senior Notes Indenture. The 6.625% IEA Senior Notes are structurally subordinated to all indebtedness and other liabilities, including trade payables, of the Company subsidiaries and are effectively subordinated to any secured indebtedness of the IEA Issuer, to the extent of the value of the collateral securing such indebtedness. Certain restrictions set forth in the indenture governing the 6.625% IEA Senior Notes were suspended in October 2022 following the acquisition of IEA by MasTec because such notes were rated investment grade by at least two nationally recognized ratings agencies. These covenants will remain suspended for so long as such investment grade ratings are maintained. See Note 7 - Debt in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated by reference. Exchange Offer and 6.625% MasTec Senior Notes Pursuant to a private exchange offer and consent solicitation to certain holders of the 6.625% IEA Senior Notes, which was completed on October 26, 2022, approximately $74.9 million in principal amount of 6.625% IEA Senior Notes were exchanged for the same principal amount of 6.625% MasTec Senior Notes. Interest on the 6.625% MasTec Senior Notes is payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 of each year, commencing on February 15, 2023. The 6.625% MasTec Senior Notes are general senior unsecured obligations of the Company, and rank equal in right of payment with all of the Company existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness and senior in right of payment to any of the Company future subordinated indebtedness. The 6.625% MasTec Senior Notes are effectively subordinated to all secured indebtedness of the Company to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness and are structurally subordinated to all obligations of the subsidiaries of the Company, including trade payables and the 6.625% IEA Senior Notes. See Note 7 - Debt in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated by reference. 2022 Term Loan Facility On September 1, 2022, we entered into a new unsecured delayed draw term loan agreement (the 2022 Term Loan Facility ) which provided for $700.0 million in term loans, composed of $400.0 million in principal amount of three-year loans and $300.0 million in principal amount of five-year loans, which were drawn on October 7, 2022, the closing date of the IEA acquisition. The obligations under the 2022 Term Loan Facility are unsecured and are not guaranteed by any of the Company or its subsidiaries. See Note 7 - Debt in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated by reference. Debt Covenants We were in compliance with the provisions and covenants contained in our outstanding debt instruments as of December 31, 2022. Additional Information For detailed discussion and additional information pertaining to our debt instruments, see Note 7 - Debt in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated by reference. 45 Contractual Payment Obligations The following table sets forth our contractual payment obligations as of December 31, 2022 during the periods indicated below (in millions): Contractual Obligations Total Less than 1 Year 1 - 3 Years 3 - 5 Years More than 5 Years and Thereafter Senior unsecured credit facility $ 1,246.0 $ 8.8 $ 26.3 $ 1,210.9 $ 4.50% Senior Notes 600.0 600.0 6.625% Senior Notes 281.2 281.2 2022 Term Loan Facility 700.0 430.0 270.0 Finance lease and other obligations 414.5 163.1 207.0 40.8 3.6 Operating lease liabilities 317.7 102.0 132.0 51.8 31.9 Earn-out and contingent payment obligations (a) 51.4 51.4 Interest (b) 721.5 172.3 319.5 182.6 47.1 Total $ 4,332.3 $ 497.6 $ 1,114.8 $ 1,756.1 $ 963.8 (a) Under certain acquisition agreements, we have agreed to pay the sellers earn-outs and other amounts based on the performance of the businesses acquired. Certain of these payments may be made either in cash or in MasTec common stock, or a combination thereof, at our option. Due to the contingent nature of these payments, we have only included obligations that we expect will be paid in cash and have been earned as of December 31, 2022. (b) Represents expected future interest payments on debt and finance lease obligations outstanding as of December 31, 2022, and does not include potential letter of credit or commitment fees associated with our senior unsecured credit facility. With the exception of our credit facilities and term loans, all of our debt instruments are fixed rate interest obligations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As is common in our industry, we have entered into certain off-balance sheet arrangements in the ordinary course of business. Our significant off-balance sheet transactions include liabilities associated with non-cancelable operating leases with durations of less than twelve months, letter of credit obligations, surety and performance and payment bonds entered into in the normal course of business, self-insurance liabilities, liabilities associated with multiemployer pension plans, liabilities associated with potential funding obligations and indemnification and/or guarantee arrangements relating to our equity and other investment arrangements, including our variable interest entities. These off-balance sheet arrangements have not had, and are not reasonably likely to have, a material impact on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, cash requirements or capital resources in the next twelve months or in the foreseeable future. Refer to Note 14 - Commitments and Contingencies, Note 4 - Fair Value of Financial Instruments and Note 15 - Related Party Transactions in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements, which are incorporated by reference. Impact of Inflation Over the last year, inflation, supply chain and labor constraints have had a significant impact on the global economy, including on the construction industry in the United States. The primary inflationary factors directly affecting our operations are labor, fuel and material costs. Inflation has caused an increase in consumer prices and regulatory actions to increase interest rates, thereby elevating the risk of a recession. At the same time, the labor market remains at historically low levels of unemployment, creating further pressure on the supply of skilled labor. In times of low unemployment and/or high inflation, our labor costs may increase due to shortages in the supply of skilled labor and increases in compensation rates generally. Although most project materials are provided by our customers, increases in the cost of materials could negatively affect the economic viability of our customers projects, and accordingly, demand for our services. Material and commodity prices are subject to unexpected fluctuations due to events outside of our control, including fluctuations in global supply and demand, climate-related effects, and geopolitical events, such as the ongoing conflict in Ukraine, which events have recently caused market volatility, particularly in the oil and gas markets, among others. Recent increases in labor, fuel and materials costs, to the extent that we have been unable to pass such increases along to our customers, have negatively affected our project margins, and could continue to affect our profitability in the future if we are unable to pass these costs along to our customers. Such market volatility can also affect our customers investment decisions and subject us to project cancellations, deferrals or unexpected changes in the timing of project work. Market prices for goods can also be affected by supply chain disruptions, including the continuing effects of supply chain disruptions as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Additionally, as discussed within Interest Rate Risk below, the current inflationary environment has also resulted in an increase in market interest rates, which has increased the rates of interest on our variable rate debt. We closely monitor inflationary factors, including current rates of inflation, and any potential effects they may have on our business operations, operating results and/or financial condition. While the impact of these factors cannot be fully eliminated, we proactively work to mitigate the effects of inflation; however, continued inflationary pressures and related interest rate increases could adversely affect our business operations in the future. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 - Business, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated by reference. 
