CIK: 1690820
Company Name: CARVANA CO 
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2024-02-22
Accession Number: 0001690820-24-000093


ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with Part I, including matters set forth in the "Risk Factors" section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our financial statements and notes thereto included in Part II, Item 8 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," of this Form 10-K. Except when stated otherwise, we present the discussion in Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations on a consolidated basis. Overview Carvana is the leading e-commerce platform for buying and selling used cars. We are transforming the used car buying and selling experience by giving consumers what they want - a wide selection, great value and quality, transparent pricing, and a simple, no pressure transaction. Each element of our business, from inventory procurement to fulfillment and overall ease of the online transaction, has been built for this singular purpose. See Part I, Item 1 - "Business" for a detailed description and discussion of the Company's business. Refer to " Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations " in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022 filed with the SEC on February 23, 2023 for discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021. Retail Vehicle Unit Sales Since launching to customers in Atlanta, Georgia in January 2013, we have historically experienced rapid growth in sales through our website www.carvana.com. Due to profitability initiatives and macroeconomic impacts, including high interest rates during the year ended December 31, 2023, the number of vehicles we sold to retail customers decreased by 24.1% to 312,847, compared to 412,296 in the year ended December 31, 2022. While our current focus is on profitability, we view the number of vehicles we sell to retail customers as the most important long-term measure of our performance, and we expect to continue to focus on building a scalable platform to efficiently increase our retail units sold. This focus on retail units sold is motivated by several factors: Retail units sold enable multiple revenue streams, including the sale of the vehicle itself, the sale of finance receivables originated to finance the vehicle, the sale of VSCs, GAP waiver coverage, other ancillary products, and the sale of vehicles acquired from customers. Retail units sold are the primary driver of customer referrals and repeat sales. Each time we sell a vehicle to a new customer, that customer may refer future customers and can become a repeat buyer in the future. Retail units sold are an important driver of the average number of days between when we acquire the vehicle and when we sell it. Reducing average days to sale impacts gross profit on our vehicles because used vehicles generally depreciate over time. Retail units sold allow us to benefit from economies of scale due to our centralized online sales model. We believe our model provides meaningful operating leverage in acquisition, reconditioning, transport, customer service, and delivery. While our near-term objectives are geared towards a reduction in our selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expenses, in the long term, we plan to invest in technology and infrastructure to support efficient growth in retail units sold. This includes continued investment in our vehicle acquisition, reconditioning and logistics network, as well as continued investment in product development and engineering to deliver customers a best-in-class experience. Markets and Population Coverage Our historical growth in retail units sold was driven by increased penetration in our existing markets and expansion into new markets. We define a market as a metropolitan area in which we have commenced local advertising and generally offer home delivery to customers with a Carvana employee in a branded delivery truck. We define our population coverage as the 52 percentage of the U.S. population that lives within those markets. Opening a new market involves hiring a team of customer advocates, connecting the market to our existing logistics network and initiating advertising, both locally through a blend of brand and direct advertising channels, and on national television for increased brand awareness. As a market scales, we may elect to build a vending machine in the market to further increase customer awareness and enhance our fulfillment operations. Our advertising spend in each market is approximately proportionate to each market's population, subject to our profitability initiatives and adjustments based on specific characteristics of the market, used vehicle market seasonality, and special events such as vending machine openings. We served 316 markets as of December 31, 2023, covering 81.1% of the U.S. population. Over time, we have continually improved our market expansion playbook, which we believe provides us with the capability to efficiently execute our long-term growth plan. While we are currently focused on driving profitability through efficiency and expense reduction, we are continually evaluating consumer demand, our operational capacity and our long-term growth plan to determine our market opening and vending machine launch strategy. Revenue and Gross Profit We generate revenue on retail units sold from four primary sources: the sale of the retail vehicles, wholesale sales of vehicles we acquire from customers, including sales through our wholesale marketplace, gains on the sales of loans originated to finance the vehicles, and sales of ancillary products such as VSCs and GAP waiver coverage. Our largest source of revenue, retail vehicle sales, totaled $7.5 billion and $10.3 billion during the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. We generally expect retail vehicle sales to trend proportionately with retail units sold, absent any material changes in macroeconomic conditions. We generate gross profit on retail vehicle sales from the difference between the retail selling price of the vehicle and our cost of sales associated with acquiring the vehicle and preparing it for sale. Wholesale sales and revenues includes sales of trade-ins and other vehicles acquired from customers that do not meet the requirements for our retail inventory. Subsequent to the ADESA Acquisition, we also include revenue earned from the sale of wholesale marketplace units by non-Carvana sellers and buyers through our wholesale marketplace platform, including auction fees and related service revenues, in wholesale sales and revenues. Wholesale sales and revenues totaled $2.5 billion and $2.6 billion during the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. We generally expect wholesale sales to trend proportionately with retail units sold through trade-ins and from customers who wish to sell us a car independent of a retail sale and with the movement of wholesale marketplace units. We generate gross profit on wholesale vehicle sales from the difference between the wholesale selling price of the vehicle and our cost of sales associated with acquiring the vehicle and preparing it for sale. We generate a gross profit on wholesale marketplace units from the difference between the revenue earned from the sale of wholesale marketplace units through our wholesale marketplace platform less our cost of sales associated with operating the wholesale marketplace platform. Other sales and revenues, which primarily includes gains on the sales of finance receivables we originate and sales commissions on ancillary products such as VSCs, GAP waiver coverage, and auto insurance, totaled $753 million and $741 million during the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. We generally expect other sales and revenues to trend proportionately with retail units sold. We also expect other sales and revenues to increase as we improve our ability to monetize loans we originate, including through securitization transactions, and sell and offer attractive financing solutions and ancillary products to our customers, including products customarily sold by automotive retailers or insurance products customarily sold by traditional insurance companies, absent any material changes in macroeconomic conditions. Other sales and revenues are 100% gross margin products for which gross profit equals revenue. During the current macroeconomic uncertainty, our highest priority will continue to be providing exceptional customer experiences while improving efficiency and utilizing our infrastructure to support efficient growth in retail units sold, to help us move along the path to achieve sustained profitability and positive free cash flow. Secondarily, we plan to pursue several strategies designed to increase our brand awareness and total gross profit per unit. These strategies may include the following: Increase the purchase of vehicles from customers. Over time, we plan to grow the number of vehicles that we purchase from our customers as trade-ins or independent of a retail sale. This will provide additional vehicles for our retail business, which on average are more profitable compared to the same vehicle acquired at auction, and expand our inventory selection. In addition, this in turn will grow our wholesale business. 53 Reduce average days to sale. Our goal is generally to increase our sales at a faster rate than we increase our inventory size, which we believe would decrease average days to sale due to a relative increase in demand versus supply. Reductions in average days to sale lead to fewer vehicle price reductions, and therefore higher average selling prices, all other factors being equal. Higher average selling prices in turn lead to higher gross profit per unit sold, all other factors being equal. Leverage existing inspection and reconditioning infrastructure. As we scale, we intend to more fully utilize the capacity at our existing IRCs and auction locations with reconditioning capacity, which collectively have capacity to inspect and recondition approximately 1.3 million vehicles per year at full utilization. Expand our logistics network. As we scale, we intend to further expand our in-house logistics network to transport cars to our IRCs or other sites after acquisition from customers or wholesale auctions. Increase conversion on existing products. We plan to continue to improve our website to highlight the benefits of our complementary product offerings, including financing, VSCs, GAP waiver coverage, other ancillary products, and trade-ins. Add new products and services. We plan to utilize our online sales platform to offer additional complementary products and services to our customers. Increase monetization of our finance receivables. We plan to continue selling finance receivables in securitization transactions and otherwise expand our base of financial partners who purchase the finance receivables originated on our platform to reduce our effective cost of funds. Optimize purchasing and pricing. We are constantly improving the ways in which we predict customer demand, value vehicles sight unseen and optimize what we pay to acquire those vehicles. We also regularly test different pricing of our products, including vehicle sticker prices, trade-in and independent vehicle offers, and ancillary product prices, and we believe we can improve by further optimizing prices over time. Seasonality Retail and wholesale used vehicle sales generally exhibit seasonality with sales peaking late in the first calendar quarter and diminishing through the rest of the year, with the lowest relative level of vehicle sales expected to occur in the fourth calendar quarter. Due to our historical rapid growth, our overall sales patterns in the past have not always reflected the general seasonality of the used vehicle industry. However, as our business and markets have continued to mature, our results have become more reflective of typical market seasonality. Used vehicle prices also exhibit seasonality, with used vehicles depreciating at a faster rate in the last two quarters of each year and a slower rate in the first two quarters of each year, all other factors being equal. We expect to experience seasonal and other fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, including as a result of macroeconomic conditions, which may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business. Investment in Growth We have historically aggressively invested in the growth of our business. Due to the current macroeconomic environment, we are focused on driving profitability through operating efficiency and reducing expenses in the short-term. While we intend to become increasingly efficient over time, we also anticipate that our operating expenses will increase substantially as we return to growth and continue to expand our logistics network, increase our advertising spending, and serve more of the U.S. population. There is no guarantee that we will be able to realize the desired return on our investments. Relationships with Related Parties For discussion about our relationships with related parties, refer to Note 7 Related Party Transactions of our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our Proxy Statement for our 2024 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be filed with the SEC within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023. 54 Key Operating Metrics We regularly review a number of metrics, including the following key metrics, to evaluate our business, measure our progress and make strategic decisions. Our key operating metrics reflect the key drivers of our growth, including increasing brand awareness, enhancing the selection of vehicles we make available to our customers, and serving more of the U.S. population. Our key operating metrics also demonstrate our ability to translate these drivers into retail sales and to monetize these retail sales through a variety of product offerings. Years Ended December 31, 2023 2022 Retail units sold 312,847 412,296 Average monthly unique visitors (in thousands) 14,581 21,763 Total website units 33,075 63,992 Total gross profit per unit $ 5,511 $ 3,022 Total gross profit per unit, non-GAAP $ 5,984 $ 3,337 Retail Units Sold We define retail units sold as the number of vehicles sold to customers in a given period, net of returns under our seven-day return policy. We view retail units sold as a key measure of our growth for several reasons. First, retail units sold is the primary driver of our revenues and, indirectly, gross profit, since retail unit sales enable multiple complementary revenue streams, including financing, VSCs, GAP waiver coverage, other ancillary products, and trade-ins. Second, growth in retail units sold increases the base of available customers for referrals and repeat sales. Third, growth in retail units sold is an indicator of our ability to successfully scale our logistics, fulfillment, and customer service operations. Average Monthly Unique Visitors We define a monthly unique visitor as an individual who has visited our website within a calendar month, based on data provided by Google Analytics. We calculate average monthly unique visitors as the sum of monthly unique visitors in a given period, divided by the number of months in that period. We view average monthly unique visitors as a key indicator of the strength of our brand, the effectiveness of our advertising and merchandising campaigns, and consumer awareness of our brand. Total Website Units We define total website units as the number of vehicles listed on our website on the last day of a given reporting period, including vehicles available for sale, vehicles currently engaged in a purchase or reserved by a customer, and vehicles that can be reserved that generally have not yet completed the inspection and reconditioning process. We view total website units as a key measure of our growth. Growth in total website units increases the selection of vehicles available to our consumers, which we believe will allow us to increase the number of vehicles we sell over time. Moreover, growth in total website units indicates our ability to scale our vehicle purchasing, inspection and reconditioning operations. As part of our inventory strategy, over time we may choose not to expand total website units while continuing to grow sales, thereby improving other key operating metrics of the business. Total Gross Profit per Unit We define total gross profit per unit as the aggregate gross profit in a given period, divided by retail units sold in that period, including gross profit generated from the sale of retail vehicles, gains on the sales of loans originated to finance the vehicles, commissions on sales of VSCs, GAP waiver coverage and other ancillary products, and gross profit generated from wholesale sales of vehicles. We operate an integrated business with the objective of increasing the number of retail units sold and total gross profit per unit. Gross profits generated from the sale of retail and wholesale units are interrelated. For example, our nationwide reconditioning and inspection centers are designed to produce vehicles for both retail and wholesale sales, our vehicle storage locations have shared parking for both retail and wholesale vehicles, and our integrated multi-vehicle logistics and last mile delivery network is operated in service of both retail and wholesale sales. Such interrelationships require us to share finite operational capacity and optimize joint decisions between retail and wholesale sales, in order to position us to achieve our objective of increasing total gross profit per unit. As a result, the inclusion of gross profit generated from wholesale 55 sales of vehicles in total gross profit per unit reflects our integrated business model and the interrelationship between wholesale and retail vehicle sales. We believe the total gross profit per unit metrics provide investors with the greatest opportunity to view our performance through the same lens that our management does, and therefore assists investors to best evaluate our business and measure our progress. Total Gross Profit per Unit, Non-GAAP We define total gross profit per unit, non-GAAP as the aggregate gross profit, non-GAAP in a given period, divided by retail units sold in that period. Gross profit, non-GAAP is defined as gross profit plus depreciation and amortization in cost of sales, share-based compensation including the CEO Milestone Gift (as defined below) in cost of sales, and restructuring costs, minus revenue related to warrants to purchase shares of Root's Class A common stock (the "Root Warrants") as discussed in Note 18 Fair Value of Financial Instruments. Refer to "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" for more information, including the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP"). Components of Results of Operations Retail Vehicle Sales Retail vehicle sales represent the aggregate sales of used vehicles to customers through our website. Revenue from retail vehicle sales is recognized upon delivery to the customer or pick up of the vehicle by the customer, and is reported net of a reserve for expected returns. Factors affecting retail vehicle sales revenue include the number of retail units sold and the average selling price of these vehicles. Changes in retail units sold are a much larger driver of changes in revenue than are changes in average selling price. The number of retail vehicles we sell depends on the volume of traffic to our website, our population coverage, our inventory selection, the effectiveness of our branding and marketing efforts, the quality of our customers' purchase experience, our volume of referrals and repeat customers, the competitiveness of our pricing, competition from other used car dealerships and general macroeconomic and used car industry conditions. On a quarterly basis, the number of retail vehicles we sell is also affected by seasonality, with demand for retail vehicles generally reaching a seasonal high point late in the first quarter of each year, commensurate with the timing of tax refunds, and diminishing through the rest of the year, with the lowest relative level of retail vehicle sales generally expected to occur in the fourth calendar quarter. In 2022, heightened inflation and rising interest rates resulted in lower demand for used vehicles. These trends continued into 2023, in which retail vehicle sales were also affected by a lower inventory size, lower advertising expense, and a focus on profitability initiatives. Our retail average selling price depends on macroeconomic and used car industry conditions, the mix of vehicles we acquire, retail prices in our markets, our pricing strategy, and our average days to sale. We may choose to shift our inventory mix to higher or lower cost vehicles, or to raise or lower our prices relative to market to take advantage of supply or demand imbalances, which could temporarily lead to average selling prices increasing or decreasing. We also generally expect lower average days to sale to be associated with higher retail average selling prices due to decreased vehicle depreciation prior to sale, all other factors being equal. Wholesale Sales and Revenues Wholesale sales and revenues includes the aggregate proceeds we receive on vehicles we acquire and sell to wholesalers, and beginning in 2022, wholesale marketplace revenues. The vehicles we sell to wholesalers are primarily acquired from customers who sell a vehicle to us without purchasing a retail vehicle and from our customers who trade-in their existing vehicles when making a purchase from us. Factors affecting wholesale sales and revenues include the number of wholesale units sold and the average wholesale selling price of these vehicles. The average selling price of our wholesale units is primarily driven by the mix of vehicles we sell to wholesalers, as well as general supply and demand conditions in the applicable wholesale vehicle market. Wholesale sales and revenues includes aggregate proceeds we receive on vehicles sold to DriveTime through competitive online auctions that are managed by an unrelated third party and through the Company's wholesale marketplace platform. Wholesale marketplace revenues include revenue earned from the sale of wholesale marketplace units by third-party sellers to buyers through our wholesale marketplace platform, including auction fees and related services revenue. 56 Other Sales and Revenues We generate other sales and revenues primarily through the sales of loans we originate and sell in securitization transactions or to financing partners, reported net of a reserve for expected repurchases, commissions we receive on VSCs, sales of GAP waiver coverage, and commissions and Root Warrants we receive on sales of auto insurance. We generally seek to sell the loans we originate to securitization trusts we sponsor and establish or to financing partners. The securitization trusts issue asset-backed securities, some of which are collateralized by the finance receivables that we sell to the securitization trusts. We also sell the loans we originate under committed forward-flow arrangements, including a master purchase and sale agreement, and through fixed pool loan sales, with financing partners who generally acquire them at premium prices without recourse to us for their post-sale performance. Factors affecting revenue from these sales include the number of loans we originate, the average principal balance of the loans, the credit quality of the portfolio, the price at which we are able to sell them in securitization transactions or to financing partners, and economic conditions in the capital markets. The number of loans we originate is driven by the number of retail vehicles sold and the percentage of our sales for which we provide financing, which is influenced by the financing terms we offer our customers relative to alternatives available to the customer. The average principal balance is driven primarily by the mix of vehicles we sell, since higher average selling prices typically mean higher average balances. The price at which we sell the loan is driven by the terms of our securitization transactions and forward-flow arrangement, applicable interest rates, and whether or not the loan includes GAP waiver coverage. In 2016, we entered into a master dealer agreement with DriveTime, pursuant to which we receive a commission for selling VSCs that DriveTime administers. The commission revenue we recognize on VSCs depends on the number of retail units we sell, the conversion rate of VSCs on these sales, commission rates we receive, VSC early cancellation frequency and product features. The GAP waiver coverage revenue we recognize depends on the number of retail units we sell, the number of customers that choose to finance their purchases with us, the frequency of GAP waiver coverage early cancellation, and the conversion rate of GAP waiver coverage on those sales. In September 2022, we completed our integrated auto insurance solution with Root (the "Integrated Platform"), through which customers may conveniently access auto insurance directly from the Carvana e-commerce platform. We receive commissions and Root Warrants based on the Root insurance policies sold through the Integrated Platform. The commission revenue we recognize depends on the number of retail units we sell, the conversion rate of auto policies on those sales, commission rates we receive, and forecasted attrition. The revenue we recognize from Root Warrants as non-cash consideration depends on the probability of achieving certain auto policy sales thresholds within a specific timeline as well as our performance under the agreement with Root. Cost of Sales Cost of sales includes the cost to acquire, recondition, and transport vehicles associated with preparing them for resale, and beginning in 2022, wholesale marketplace cost of sales. Vehicle acquisition costs are driven by the mix of vehicles we acquire, the source of those vehicles, and supply-and-demand dynamics in the vehicle market. Reconditioning costs consist of direct costs, including parts, labor, and third-party repair expenses directly attributable to specific vehicles, as well as indirect costs, such as IRC overhead. Transportation costs consist of costs incurred to transport the vehicles from the point of acquisition to the IRC or other site. Cost of sales also includes any necessary adjustments to reflect vehicle inventory at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Wholesale marketplace cost of sales include costs related to the sale of wholesale marketplace units by third-party sellers through our wholesale marketplace platform, including labor, rent, depreciation and amortization. Retail Vehicle Gross Profit Retail vehicle gross profit is the vehicle sales price minus our costs of sales associated with vehicles that we list and sell on our website. Retail vehicle gross profit per unit is our aggregate retail vehicle gross profit in any measurement period divided by the number of retail units sold in that period. Wholesale Gross Profit Wholesale gross profit is the vehicle sales price minus our cost of sales associated with vehicles we sell to wholesalers, and beginning in 2022, wholesale marketplace revenues less wholesale marketplace cost of sales. Factors affecting wholesale gross 57 profit include the number of wholesale units sold, the average wholesale selling price of these vehicles, the average acquisition price associated with these vehicles, the buyer and seller fees, and the number of wholesale marketplace units sold. Other Gross Profit Other sales and revenues consist of 100% gross margin products for which gross profit equals revenue. Therefore, changes in gross profit and the associated drivers are identical to changes in revenues from these products and the associated drivers. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses SG&A expenses include expenses associated with advertising and providing customer service to customers, operating our vending machines, hubs, physical auctions, logistics and fulfillment network and other corporate overhead expenses, including expenses associated with information technology, product development, engineering, legal, accounting, finance, and business development. SG&A expenses exclude the costs of inspecting and reconditioning vehicles and transporting vehicles from the point of acquisition to the IRC, which are included in cost of sales, and payroll costs for our employees related to the development of software products for internal use, which are capitalized to software and depreciated over the estimated useful lives of the related assets. Interest Expense Interest expense includes interest incurred on our various tranches of Senior Secured Notes and Senior Unsecured Notes, our Floor Plan Facility, and our Finance Receivable Facilities (each as defined in Note 10 Debt Instruments of our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," of this Annual Report on Form 10-K), as well as our notes payable, finance leases, and long-term debt, which are used to fund general working capital, our inventory, our transportation fleet, and certain of our property and equipment. Interest expense also includes amortization of capitalized debt issuance costs, which is offset by amortization of debt premium and interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents. Interest expense excludes the interest incurred during various construction projects to build, upgrade, or remodel certain facilities, which is capitalized to property and equipment and depreciated over the estimated useful lives of the related assets. Other (Income) Expense, Net Other (income) expense, net includes changes in fair value on our beneficial interests in securitizations, purchase price adjustment receivables, and fair value adjustments related to our Root Warrants as discussed in Note 18 Fair Value of Financial Instruments of our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, along with other general expenses such as gains or losses from disposals of long-lived assets. During the year ended December 31, 2023, other (income) expense, net also includes expense related to the recognition of our Tax Receivable Agreement reserve. Income Tax Provision Income taxes are recognized based upon our anticipated underlying annual blended federal and state income tax rates adjusted, as necessary, for any discrete tax matters occurring during the period. As the sole managing member of Carvana Group, LLC (together with its subsidiaries Carvana Group ), Carvana Co. consolidates the financial results of Carvana Group. Carvana Group, LLC is treated as a partnership and therefore not subject to U.S. federal and most applicable state and local income tax purposes. Any taxable income or loss generated by Carvana Group is passed through to and included in the taxable income or loss of its members, including Carvana Co., based on its economic interest held in Carvana Group. Carvana Co. is taxed as a corporation and is subject to U.S. federal, state and local income taxes with respect to its allocable share of any taxable income or loss of Carvana Group, as well as any stand-alone income or loss generated by Carvana Co. During the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, the Company generated income tax expense of $25 million and $1 million, respectively. 58 Results of Operations Years Ended December 31, 2023 2022 Change (dollars in millions, except per unit amounts) Net sales and operating revenues: Retail vehicle sales, net $ 7,514 $ 10,254 (26.7) % Wholesale sales and revenues (1) 2,504 2,609 (4.0) % Other sales and revenues (2) 753 741 1.6 % Total net sales and operating revenues $ 10,771 $ 13,604 (20.8) % Gross profit: Retail vehicle gross profit (3) $ 746 $ 371 101.1 % Wholesale gross profit (1) 225 134 67.9 % Other gross profit (2) 753 741 1.6 % Total gross profit $ 1,724 $ 1,246 38.4 % Unit sales information: Retail vehicle unit sales 312,847 412,296 (24.1) % Wholesale vehicle unit sales 156,545 193,260 (19.0) % Per unit selling prices: Retail vehicles $ 24,018 $ 24,870 (3.4) % Wholesale vehicles (4) $ 10,527 $ 10,965 (4.0) % Per retail unit gross profit: Retail vehicle gross profit (5) $ 2,385 $ 900 165.0 % Wholesale gross profit 719 325 121.2 % Other gross profit 2,407 1,797 33.9 % Total gross profit $ 5,511 $ 3,022 82.4 % Per wholesale unit gross profit: Wholesale vehicle gross profit (6) $ 888 $ 580 53.1 % Wholesale marketplace: Wholesale marketplace units sold 871,200 485,333 NM Wholesale marketplace revenues $ 856 $ 490 NM Wholesale marketplace gross profit (7) $ 86 $ 22 NM (1) Includes $19 and $32, respectively, of wholesale sales and revenues from related parties. (2) Includes $145 and $176, respectively, of other sales and revenues from related parties. (3) Includes $0 and $16, respectively, of share-based compensation expense related to a commitment by the Company CEO, Ernest Garcia III to grant all employees as of January 5, 2022, 23 shares of Class A common stock from his personal shareholdings once employees reach their two-year employment anniversary (the CEO Milestone Gift or the Gift ). (4) Excludes wholesale marketplace revenues and wholesale marketplace units sold. (5) Includes $0 and $39, respectively, of share-based compensation expense related to the CEO Milestone Gift. (6) Excludes wholesale marketplace gross profit and wholesale marketplace units sold. (7) Includes $102 and $62, respectively, of depreciation and amortization expense. NM = Not Meaningful (For the twelve months ended December 31, 2022, only includes wholesale marketplace data from the date of the ADESA Acquisition of May 9, 2022.) Retail Vehicle Sales Retail vehicle sales decreased by $2.74 billion to $7.51 billion during the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to $10.25 billion during the year ended December 31, 2022. The decrease in revenue was primarily due to a decrease in the 59 number of retail vehicles sold to 312,847 from 412,296 during the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The decrease in retail units sold was driven by various macroeconomic factors including increased interest rates and inflation, leading to decreased vehicle affordability, as well as our increased focus on profitability initiatives, which have led to lower advertising levels and inventory size. Additionally, there was a decrease in the average selling price of our retail units sold to $24,018 in the year ended December 31, 2023 from $24,870 in the prior year, due primarily to overall depreciation in the used vehicle market, despite improvements in turn times compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. Wholesale Sales and Revenues Wholesale sales and revenues decreased by $105 million to $2.5 billion during the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to $2.6 billion during the year ended December 31, 2022. Wholesale marketplace revenues, which were only included in our results from operations subsequent to the ADESA Acquisition, were higher during the year ended December 31, 2023 at $856 million, compared to $490 million during the year ended December 31, 2022, primarily due to an increase in wholesale marketplace units sold to 871,200 during the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to 485,333 during the year ended December 31, 2022. This was offset by a decrease in wholesale units sold that were acquired from customers on our website to 156,545 from 193,260 during the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Other Sales and Revenues Other sales and revenues increased by $12 million to $753 million during the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to $741 million during the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase was primarily due to an increase in gain on loan sales as a result of more loan sales during the year ended December 31, 2023, higher interest income due to higher levels of finance receivables held for sale during the year, and revenue related to our Root Warrants. This increase was partially offset by the decrease in retail units sold during the year ended December 31, 2023. Retail Vehicle Gross Profit Retail vehicle gross profit increased by $375 million to $746 million during the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to $371 million during the year ended December 31, 2022. This increase was driven primarily by an increase in retail vehicle gross profit per unit to $2,385 for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to $900 for the year ended December 31, 2022. The per unit increase was primarily driven by lower average days to sale and lower reconditioning and inbound transport costs on retail vehicles sold during the year ended December 31, 2023 as part of our profitability initiatives. Wholesale Gross Profit Wholesale gross profit increased by $91 million to $225 million during the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to $134 million during the year ended December 31, 2022. This increase was primarily driven by an increase in wholesale marketplace gross profit by $64 million to $86 million during the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to $22 million during the year ended December 31, 2022, which only included the results of ADESA subsequent to acquisition. Additionally, the increase was driven by an increase in wholesale vehicle gross profit per wholesale unit to $888 from $580 for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, partially offset by a decrease in wholesale units sold to 156,545 from 193,260, respectively. The increase in wholesale vehicle gross profit per wholesale unit was primarily a result of lower acquisition costs of wholesale vehicles sold during the year ended December 31, 2023. Other Gross Profit Other sales and revenues consist of 100% gross margin products for which gross profit equals revenue. Therefore, changes in other gross profit and the associated drivers are identical to changes in other sales and revenues and the associated drivers. 60 Components of SG&A Years Ended December 31, 2023 2022 (in millions) Compensation and benefits (1) $ 662 $ 917 CEO Milestone Gift (2) (1) 26 Advertising 228 490 Market occupancy (3) 71 93 Logistics (4) 119 235 Other (5) 717 975 Total $ 1,796 $ 2,736 (1) Compensation and benefits includes all payroll and related costs, including benefits, payroll taxes, and equity-based compensation, except those related to preparing vehicles for sale, which are included in cost of sales, and those related to the development of software products for internal use, which are capitalized to software and depreciated over the estimated useful lives of the related assets. (2) CEO Milestone Gift includes all equity-based compensation and payroll tax costs associated with the Gift, except those Gift costs related to preparing vehicles for sale, which are included in cost of sales. (3) Market occupancy costs includes occupancy costs of our vending machine and hubs. It excludes occupancy costs related to reconditioning vehicles which are included in cost of sales and the portion related to corporate occupancy which are included in other costs. (4) Logistics includes fuel, maintenance and depreciation related to operating our own transportation fleet, and third-party transportation fees, except the portion related to inbound transportation, which is included in cost of sales. (5) Other costs include all other selling, general and administrative expenses such as IT expenses, corporate occupancy, professional services and insurance, limited warranty, and title and registration. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased by $940 million to $1.8 billion during the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to $2.7 billion during the year ended December 31, 2022. During 2022, we implemented a number of profitability initiatives to reduce selling, general and administrative expenses, which continued throughout 2023 and included reducing our employee headcount, integrating real estate acquired as part of the ADESA Acquisition and reducing our corporate office footprint, and improving the targeting of our advertising spend. In addition, the reduction in retail units sold contributed to reductions in several categories of selling, general and administrative expenses. During the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, we realized a benefit of $1 million and an expense of $26 million, respectively, related to the CEO Milestone Gift within selling, general and administrative expense, which is presented separately above, as a result of more forfeitures than employees continuing to vest. Interest Expense Interest expense increased by $146 million to $632 million during the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to $486 million during the year ended December 31, 2022, primarily due to increased interest associated with the Senior Secured Notes. Gain on Debt Extinguishment Gain on debt extinguishment was $878 million during the year ended December 31, 2023, primarily due to the exchange of $5.5 billion in principal of Senior Unsecured Notes for $4.2 billion in principal of Senior Secured Notes and $341 million in cash, along with the write off of $66 million of debt issuance costs and a $40 million deferred premium on a portion of the Senior Secured Notes. Other (Income) Expense, Net Other (income) expense, net changed by $71 million to income of $1 million during the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to an expense of $70 million during the year ended December 31, 2022. The change was primarily due to an expense related to the fair value associated with our Root Warrants during the year ended December 31, 2022, partially offset by a tax receivable agreement expense associated with the gain recognized on the Offers (as defined in Note 10 Debt Instruments of 61 our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," of this Annual Report on Form 10-K). Income Tax Provision Income tax provision increased by $24 million to $25 million during the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to $1 million during the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase was primarily due to the income tax expense related to the cancellation of debt income recognized on the exchange of $5.5 billion in principal of Senior Unsecured Notes for $4.2 billion in principal of Senior Secured Notes and $341 million in cash. Non-GAAP Financial Measures To supplement the consolidated financial statements, which are prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP, we also present the following non-GAAP measures: Adjusted EBITDA; Adjusted EBITDA margin; Gross profit, non-GAAP; Total gross profit per retail unit, non-GAAP; SG&A, non-GAAP; and Total SG&A per retail unit, non-GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA; Adjusted EBITDA margin; Gross profit, non-GAAP; Total gross profit per retail unit, non-GAAP; SG&A, non-GAAP; and Total SG&A per retail unit, non-GAAP Adjusted EBITDA; Adjusted EBITDA margin; Gross profit, non-GAAP; Total gross profit per retail unit, non-GAAP; SG&A, non-GAAP; and Total SG&A per retail unit, non-GAAP are supplemental measures of operating performance that do not represent and should not be considered an alternative to net income (loss), gross profit, or SG&A, as determined by GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net income (loss) plus income tax provision, interest expense, other (income) expense, net, depreciation and amortization in cost of sales and SG&A, goodwill impairment, share-based compensation including the CEO Milestone Gift in cost of sales and SG&A, and restructuring costs, minus revenue related to our Root Warrants and gain on debt extinguishment. Following the ADESA Acquisition, we are also excluding depreciation and amortization in cost of sales, which was historically only a small component of cost of sales. Adjusted EBITDA margin is Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of total revenues. Gross profit, non-GAAP is defined as GAAP gross profit plus depreciation and amortization in cost of sales, share-based compensation including the CEO Milestone Gift in cost of sales, and restructuring costs, minus revenue related to our Root Warrants. Total gross profit per retail unit, non-GAAP is Gross profit, non-GAAP divided by retail vehicle unit sales. SG&A, non-GAAP is defined as GAAP SG&A minus depreciation and amortization in SG&A, share-based compensation including the CEO Milestone Gift in SG&A, and restructuring costs. Total SG&A per retail unit, non-GAAP is SG&A, non-GAAP divided by retail vehicle unit sales. We use these non-GAAP measures to measure the operating performance of our business as a whole and relative to our total revenues and retail vehicle unit sales. We believe that these metrics are useful measures to us and to our investors because they exclude certain financial, capital structure, and non-cash items that we do not believe directly reflect our core operations and may not be indicative of our recurring operations, in part because they may vary widely across time and within our industry independent of the performance of our core operations. We believe that excluding these items enables us to more effectively evaluate our performance period-over-period and relative to our competitors. Adjusted EBITDA; Adjusted EBITDA margin; Gross profit, non-GAAP; Total gross profit per retail unit, non-GAAP; SG&A, non-GAAP; and Total SG&A per retail unit, non-GAAP may not be comparable to similarly titled measures provided by other companies due to potential differences in methods of calculations. A reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net income (loss), Gross profit, non-GAAP to gross profit, and SG&A, non-GAAP to SG&A, which are the most directly comparable GAAP measures, and calculations of Adjusted EBITDA margin, Total gross profit per retail unit, non-GAAP, and Total SG&A per retail unit, non-GAAP is as follows: 62 Years Ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 (dollars in millions, except per unit amounts) Net income (loss) $ 150 $ (2,894) $ (287) Income tax provision 25 1 1 Interest expense 632 486 176 Other (income) expense, net (1) 70 6 Depreciation and amortization expense in cost of sales 169 114 24 Depreciation and amortization expense in SG&A 183 200 105 Share-based compensation expense in cost of sales 16 Share-based compensation expense in SG&A 73 69 39 Goodwill impairment 847 Root warrant revenue (21) (7) Gain on debt extinguishment (878) Restructuring (1) 7 57 Adjusted EBITDA $ 339 $ (1,041) $ 64 Total revenues $ 10,771 $ 13,604 $ 12,814 Net income (loss) margin 1.4 % (21.3) % (2.2) % Adjusted EBITDA margin 3.1 % (7.7) % 0.5 % Gross profit $ 1,724 $ 1,246 $ 1,929 Depreciation and amortization expense in cost of sales 169 114 24 Share-based compensation expense in cost of sales 16 Root warrant revenue (21) (7) Restructuring (1) 7 Gross profit, non-GAAP $ 1,872 $ 1,376 $ 1,953 Retail vehicle unit sales 312,847 412,296 425,237 Total gross profit per retail unit $ 5,511 $ 3,022 $ 4,537 Total gross profit per retail unit, non-GAAP $ 5,984 $ 3,337 $ 4,593 SG&A $ 1,796 $ 2,736 $ 2,033 Depreciation and amortization expense in SG&A 183 200 105 Share-based compensation expense in SG&A 73 69 39 Restructuring (1) 7 50 SG&A, non-GAAP $ 1,533 $ 2,417 $ 1,889 Retail vehicle unit sales 312,847 412,296 425,237 Total SG&A per retail unit $ 5,741 $ 6,636 $ 4,781 Total SG&A per retail unit, non-GAAP $ 4,900 $ 5,862 $ 4,442 (1) For the year ended December 31, 2022, includes $28 million of lease termination fees, net of amounts written off for the corresponding operating lease right-of-use assets and operating lease liabilities which were terminated, $26 million of expenses associated with the workforce reductions, of which $7 million was recorded to cost of sales, and $3 million of other restructuring-related costs. 63 Liquidity and Capital Resources General We generate cash from the sale of retail vehicles, the sale of wholesale vehicles, proceeds from the sale of finance receivables originated in connection with the sale of retail vehicles, and sales of ancillary products such as VSCs and GAP waiver coverage. We generate additional cash flows through our financing activities including our short-term revolving inventory and finance receivable facilities and real estate and equipment financing, the issuance of long-term notes, and new issuances of equity. Historically, cash generated from financing activities has funded growth and expansion into new markets and strategic initiatives and we expect this to continue in the future. In response to the macroeconomic environment in 2022 and 2023, we increased focus on driving profitability through initiatives to better conform our expense structure to unit volume levels. We expect our primary sources of cash to continue to be sufficient to fund our operating activities and cash commitments for investing and financing activities for at least the next 12 months. Our ability to service our debt and fund working capital, capital expenditures, and business development efforts in the long-term will depend on our ability to generate cash from operating and financing activities, which is subject to our future operating performance, as well as to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other conditions, some of which may be beyond our control. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our ability to refinance indebtedness, our ability to obtain supplemental liquidity through additional debt, equity, including the issuance of equity pursuant to the ATM Program discussed below, strategic relationships or other arrangements on terms available or acceptable to us, our rate of revenue growth, our construction of IRCs and vending machines, the timing and extent of our spending to support our technology and software development efforts, our advertising spend, and increased population coverage. If we need to obtain supplemental liquidity, there can be no assurance that financing alternatives will be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us in the future. On July 19, 2023, the Company entered into an agreement (the "Distribution Agreement"), pursuant to which the Company may offer and sell from time to time up to the greater of (i) shares of Class A common stock representing an aggregate offering price of $1.0 billion, or (ii) an aggregate number of 35 million shares of Class A common stock pursuant to one or more "at-the-market offerings," as defined in Rule 415(a)(4) promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "ATM Program"). In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023, we issued 7.2 million shares of Class A common stock at a weighted-average issuance price per share of $46.94, for gross proceeds of $336 million, which we are using for general corporate purposes. However, there can be no assurance that we will sell further shares of Class A common stock through the ATM Program, or otherwise. In addition, on August 18, 2023, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with the Garcia Parties pursuant to which we issued 3.4 million Class A LLC Units in Carvana Group (the "Class A Units"), together with 2.7 million shares of Class B common stock, at a price equivalent to $46.31 per share of Class A common stock of the Company, or $37.048 per Class A Unit on an as-exchanged basis. For further information regarding Class A Units and Class B common stock, please see Note 11 Stockholders' Equity (Deficit). On September 1, 2023, we completed offers whereby we exchanged validly tendered senior unsecured notes (collectively the "Senior Unsecured Notes") for newly issued Senior Secured Notes (the "Exchange Offers"). Concurrently with the Exchange Offers, we also completed a cash tender offer to purchase any and all outstanding 5.625% senior unsecured notes due 2025 (the "2025 Senior Unsecured Notes") for cash at a purchase price of 85.0% of the aggregate principal amount thereof (the "Cash Tender Offer" and together with the Exchange Offers, the "Offers"). Upon consummation of the Offers, we successfully exchanged Senior Unsecured Notes with an aggregate outstanding principal balance of $5.5 billion for $4.2 billion in aggregate principal balance of newly issued Senior Secured Notes, paid $341 million in cash for validly tendered 2025 Senior Unsecured Notes, and paid $146 million in cash related to accrued and unpaid interest for validly tendered Senior Unsecured Notes. Finally, subject to the restrictions in the indentures governing the Senior Secured Notes, we or our affiliates may, at any time, and from time to time, repurchase portions of our Class A common stock, our Senior Unsecured Notes, our Senior Secured Notes, or any other securities we may issue, from time to time, in open market transactions, privately negotiated transactions, in exchange for property or other securities or otherwise. Any repurchase decisions will be made after consideration of market conditions and liquidity needs and will be upon such terms and at such prices as we determine appropriate. However, there is no guarantee that a repurchase will take place. 64 Liquidity Resources We had the following committed liquidity resources as well as pledging and other basket capacity available as of December 31, 2023 and 2022: December 31, 2023 2022 (in millions) Cash and cash equivalents $ 530 $ 434 Availability under short-term revolving facilities (1) 1,006 1,314 Committed liquidity resources available $ 1,536 $ 1,748 Unpledged real estate not included above (2) 1,971 Super senior debt capacity 1,262 Pari passu senior debt capacity 250 Unpledged beneficial interests in securitizations 80 69 Total liquidity resources $ 3,128 $ 3,788 (1) Based on pledging all eligible vehicles and finance receivables under the Floor Plan Facility and Finance Receivables Facilities, excluding the impact to restricted cash requirements. (2) Total unpledged gross real estate assets minus committed sale leasebacks. Includes $1.1 billion of ADESA unpledged real estate assets as of December 31, 2022. Our total liquidity resources are composed of cash and cash equivalents, availability under existing credit facilities, and additional unpledged assets, including real estate and securities, on our balance sheet that can be financed using traditional asset-based financing sources, and additional capacity under the indentures governing our Senior Secured Notes, which allow us to incur additional debt that can be senior or pari passu in lien priority as to the collateral securing the obligations under the Senior Secured Notes. Cash and cash equivalents includes cash deposits and highly liquid investment instruments with original maturities of three months or less, such as money market funds. Availability under short-term revolving facilities is the available amount we can borrow under our existing vehicle inventory floor plan and finance receivable facilities based on the pledgeable value of vehicle inventory and finance receivables on our balance sheet on the period end date. Availability under short-term revolving facilities is distinct from the total commitment amount of these facilities because it represents the currently borrowable amount, rather than committed future amounts that could be borrowed to finance future additional assets. Effective November 1, 2023, we amended our vehicle inventory Floor Plan Facility to resize the line of credit to $1.5 billion through April 30, 2025. As of December 31, 2023 and 2022, the short-term revolving facilities had a total commitment of $4.2 billion and $4.8 billion, an outstanding balance of $668 million and $1.5 billion, and unused capacity of $3.5 billion and $3.2 billion, respectively. As of December 31, 2022, unpledged real estate assets include real estate acquired as part of the ADESA Acquisition, and IRC, vending machine, and hub real estate assets that had not been sold and were not pledged on the period end date. Since our first sale-leaseback transaction in 2017, we have historically had flexible access to real estate financing and may continue to use various forms of real estate financing in the future, subject to the indentures governing the Senior Secured Notes. As of December 31, 2023, substantially all real estate was pledged as security for the Senior Secured Notes. Super senior debt capacity and pari passu senior debt capacity represents basket capacity to incur additional debt that could be senior or pari passu in lien priority as to the collateral securing the obligations under the Senior Secured Notes, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the indentures governing the Senior Secured Notes. The availability of such additional sources depends on many factors and there can be no assurance that financing alternatives will be available to us in the future. 65 Unpledged beneficial interests in securitizations includes retained beneficial interests in securitizations that have not been previously pledged or sold. We historically have financed the majority of our retained beneficial interests in securitizations and expect to continue to do so in the future. Additionally, in January 2024, we amended our Master Purchase and Sale Agreement to, among other things, reestablish the commitment by the purchaser to purchase up to $4.0 billion of principal balances of finance receivables between January 11, 2024 and January 10, 2025. To optimize our cost of capital, in any given period we may choose not to maximize borrowings on our short-term revolving facilities, maximize revolving commitment size, or immediately sale-leaseback real estate; and we may also choose to retain beneficial interests in securitizations for varying amounts of time. This has the benefit of reducing interest expense and debt issuance costs and providing flexibility to minimize financing costs over time. We consider our total liquidity resources as an input into our planning. In general, changes in total liquidity resources fall into two broad categories: changes due to current business operations and changes due to investments in automotive retail assets. Changes in liquidity due to current business operations include Adjusted EBITDA, non-real estate capital expenditures, including technology, furniture, fixtures, and equipment, and changes in traditional working capital, including accounts receivable, accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other miscellaneous assets and liabilities. In the ordinary course of business, we sponsor and engage in securitization transactions to sell our finance receivables to a diverse pool of investors. These securitizations involve unconsolidated variable interest entities in which we retain at least 5% of the credit risk of the underlying finance receivable by holding at least 5% of the notes and certificates issued by these entities. We are exposed to market risk in the securitization market. See Note 9 Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities of our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion regarding our transactions with unconsolidated variable interest entities. In addition, we also invest in and generate several types of assets, including vehicle inventory, finance receivables, retained beneficial interests in securitizations, and real estate. To maximize capital efficiency, we generally seek to finance these assets with matched sources of asset-based financing, including short-term revolving facilities for vehicle inventory and finance receivables, beneficial interests financing for retained beneficial interests in securitizations, and sale-leaseback or other real estate financing for IRCs and vending machines. We have historically used these sources of financing to finance our investment in these assets and expect to continue to do so in the future. As of December 31, 2023 and 2022, our outstanding principal amount of indebtedness, including finance leases, was $6.3 billion and $8.4 billion, respectively, summarized in the table below. See Note 10 Debt Instruments and Note 16 Leases of our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on our debt and finance leases. 66 December 31, 2023 2022 (in millions) Asset-Based Financing: Inventory $ 113 $ 569 Finance receivables and beneficial interests 848 1,233 Transportation fleet (1) 267 375 Real estate (2) 485 489 Total asset-based financing 1,713 2,666 Senior Secured Notes 4,378 Senior Unsecured Notes 205 5,725 Total debt 6,296 8,391 Less: unamortized debt issuance costs (3) (60) (82) Plus: unamortized premium (4) 37 Total debt, net $ 6,273 $ 8,309 (1) Amount includes notes payable and finance leases. (2) Amount includes real estate financing and notes payable. (3) The unamortized debt issuance costs related to long-term debt are presented as a reduction of the carrying amount of the corresponding liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. Unamortized debt issuance costs related to revolving debt agreements are presented within other assets on our consolidated balance sheets and not included here. (4) The unamortized premium relates to a portion of the Offers (as defined in Note 10 Debt Instruments of our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," of this Annual Report on Form 10-K) which was accounted for as a debt modification. Cash Flows The following table presents a summary of our consolidated cash flows from operating, investing, and financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2023, and 2022: Years Ended December 31, 2023 2022 (in millions) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 803 $ (1,324) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 31 (2,583) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (868) 3,899 Net decrease in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash (34) (8) Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash at beginning of period 628 636 Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash at end of period $ 594 $ 628 Operating Activities Our primary sources of operating cash flows result from the sales of retail vehicles, wholesale vehicles, loans we originate, and ancillary products. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are purchases of inventory, personnel-related expenses, and cash used to acquire customers. Cash provided by and used in operating activities was $0.8 billion and $1.3 billion for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, an increase in cash provided by operating activities of $2.1 billion, primarily due to decreased net finance receivables held for sale and vehicle inventory acquisitions, along with decreased selling, general and administrative expenses and reconditioning costs due to our profitability initiatives. 67 Investing Activities Our primary use of cash for investing activities is purchases of property and equipment to expand our operations. Cash provided by and used in investing activities was $31 million and $2.6 billion during the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, a decrease in cash used in investing activities of $2.6 billion, primarily driven by the $2.2 billion used for the ADESA Acquisition in May 2022 and decreased purchases of property and equipment in the year ended December 31, 2023 as part of our effort to reduce our capital expenditures. Financing Activities Cash flows from financing activities primarily relate to our short and long-term debt activity, including paying down our short-term revolving facilities. Cash used in and provided by financing activities was $0.9 billion and $3.9 billion during the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, a decrease in cash provided by financing activities of $4.8 billion. During the year ended December 31, 2023, we launched an ATM Program and sold Class A common stock for net proceeds of $327 million, entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with the Garcia Parties and sold Class A LLC Units together with Class B common stock for proceeds of $126 million, and completed the Offers whereby we paid $341 million in cash for validly tendered 2025 Senior Unsecured Notes and $48 million in related debt issuance costs. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we completed an equity offering for net proceeds of $1.2 billion and a notes offering of $3.275 billion as part of our financing for the ADESA Acquisition. The remaining change primarily relates to decreased net proceeds from short-term revolving facilities. Contractual Obligations and Commitments We are party to contractual obligations involving commitments to third parties for which we believe we have sufficient liquidity to fund our operations and meet our obligations as they come due. These contractual obligations impact our liquidity and future capital requirements and primarily consist of long-term debt and related interest payments, leases, short-term revolving facilities, financing of beneficial interests in securitizations, and other purchase obligations and commitments. See Note 8 Finance Receivable Sale Agreements, Note 10 Debt Instruments, Note 16 Leases, and Note 17 Commitments and Contingencies of the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for more information related to these contractual obligations and commitments. Fair Value Measurements We report money market securities, certain receivables, warrants to acquire Root's Class A common stock and beneficial interests in securitizations at fair value. See Note 18 Fair Value of Financial Instruments, included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statement and Supplementary Data," of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is incorporated into this item by reference. Critical Accounting Estimates The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenue and expenses and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of our financial statements. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions, impacting our reported results of operations and financial condition. Certain accounting policies involve significant judgments and assumptions by management, which have a material impact on the carrying value of assets and liabilities and the recognition of income and expenses. The estimates and assumptions used by management are based on historical experience and other factors, which are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The significant accounting estimates which we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results are described below. Refer to Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for more detailed information regarding our critical accounting policies. 68 Revenue Recognition We sell retail vehicles directly to our customers through our website. We recognize revenue upon delivery to the customer or pick up of the vehicle by a customer at the agreed upon purchase price stated in the contract, including any delivery charges, less an estimate for returns. Our return policy allows customers to initiate a return during the first seven days after delivery. Estimates for returns are based on an analysis of historical experience, trends and sales data. Changes in these estimates are reflected as an adjustment to revenue in the period identified. Customers purchasing retail vehicles from us may enter into contracts for VSCs and, if they finance with us, GAP waiver coverage. The prices of VSCs and GAP waiver coverage are set forth in each contract. We sell and receive a commission on VSCs under a master dealer agreement with DriveTime, pursuant to which we sell VSCs that DriveTime administers and is the obligor. We receive a commission on GAP waiver coverage contracts where the administrator of the contract is obligated to reimburse the holder of the underlying finance receivable for a balance that is in excess of the value of the financed vehicle in the event of a total loss. We recognize commission revenue at the time of sale, net of a reserve for estimated contract cancellations. Our risk related to contract cancellations is limited to the commissions that we receive. Cancellations fluctuate depending on the customer-financing default or prepayment rates, and shifts in customer behavior, including those related to changes in the coverage or term of the product. To the extent that actual experience differs from historical trends, there could be significant adjustments to our contract cancellation reserves. The reserve for cancellations of VSCs and GAP waiver coverage is estimated based upon historical experience and recent trends and is reflected as a reduction of other sales and revenues. Changes in these estimates are reflected as an adjustment to revenue in the period identified. Under the master dealer agreement with DriveTime, we are also contractually entitled to receive profit-sharing revenues based on the performance of the VSCs once a required claims period has passed. This is a form of variable consideration we recognize as revenue to the extent that it is probable that it will not result in a significant revenue reversal. We apply the expected value method, utilizing expected VSC performance based on historical claims and cancellation data from our customers, as well as other qualitative assumptions to estimate the amount we expect to receive. We reassess the estimate each reporting period with any changes reflected as an adjustment to other sales and revenues in the period identified. Profit-sharing payments will begin when the underlying VSCs reach a specified level of claims history. Finance Receivables Finance receivables include installment contracts we originate to facilitate vehicle sales. We classify these receivables as held for sale, as we do not intend to hold the finance receivables we originate to maturity. We typically sell the finance receivables we originate. We record a valuation allowance to report finance receivables at the lower of unpaid principal balance or fair value. To determine the fair value of finance receivables we utilize industry-standard modeling, such as discounted cash flow analysis, factoring in our historical experience, the credit quality of the underlying receivables, loss trends and recovery rates, as well as the overall economic environment. For purposes of determining the valuation allowance, finance receivables are evaluated collectively to determine the allowance as they represent a large group of smaller-balance homogeneous loans. To the extent that actual experience differs from historical trends, there could be significant adjustments to our valuation allowance. Principal balances of finance receivables are charged-off when we are unable to sell the finance receivable and the related vehicle has been repossessed and liquidated or the receivable has otherwise been deemed uncollectible. The estimates and trends used have historically been effective in our determination of our valuation allowance. Beneficial Interests in Securitizations The Company's beneficial interests in securitizations include rated notes and certificates and other assets, all of which are classified as Level 3 due to the lack of observable market data. The Company determines the fair value of its rated notes based on non-binding broker quotes. The non-binding broker quotes are based on models that consider the prevailing interest rates, recent market transactions, and current business conditions. The Company determines the fair value of its certificates and other assets using a combination of non-binding market quotes and internally developed discounted cash flow models. The discounted cash flow models use discount rates based on prevailing interest rates and the characteristics of the specific 69 instruments. See Note 18 Fair Value of Financial Instruments, included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further detail on the discount rates. Significant increases or decreases in the inputs to the models could result in a significantly higher or lower fair value measurement. The Company elected the fair value option on its beneficial interests in securitizations, which allows it to recognize changes in the fair value of these assets in the period the fair value changes resulting in a gain or loss in that period. Valuation of Inventory Vehicle inventory consists of used vehicles, primarily acquired directly from customers and at auction. Direct and indirect vehicle reconditioning costs including parts and labor, inbound transportation costs and other incremental costs are capitalized as a component of inventory. Inventory is stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Vehicle inventory cost is determined by specific identification. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price less costs to complete, dispose and transport the vehicles. Selling prices are derived from historical data and trends, such as sales price and inventory turn times of similar vehicles, as well as independent market resources. Each reporting period we recognize any necessary adjustments to reflect vehicle inventory at the lower of cost or net realizable value through cost of sales. To the extent that there are significant changes to estimated vehicle selling prices or decreases in demand for used vehicles, there could be significant adjustments to reflect our inventory at net realizable value. Income Taxes We account for income taxes pursuant to the asset and liability method, which requires the recognition of deferred income tax assets and liabilities related to the expected future tax consequences arising from temporary differences between the carrying amounts and tax bases of assets and liabilities based on enacted statutory tax rates applicable to the periods in which the temporary differences are expected to reverse. Any effects of changes in income tax rates or laws are included in income tax expense in the period of enactment. We reduce the carrying amounts of deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance if, based on the evidence available, it is more likely than not that such assets will not be realized. In making the assessment under the more likely than not standard, appropriate consideration must be given to all positive and negative evidence related to the realization of the deferred tax assets. The assessment considers, among other matters, the nature, frequency, and severity of current and cumulative losses, forecasts of future profitability, the duration of statutory carry forward periods by jurisdiction, our experience with loss carryforwards not expiring unutilized, and all tax-planning alternatives that may be available. A valuation allowance is recognized if under applicable accounting standards we determine it is more likely than not that our deferred tax assets would not be realized. Business Combination Purchase Price Allocation The purchase price of an acquisition is allocated to the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their fair values at the date of acquisition, with the excess purchase price being recorded as goodwill. The allocation of purchase price to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired is specifically complex because of the significant estimates and assumptions involved in determining their fair values. Due to this higher degree of complexity, we obtained the assistance of outside valuation experts in the allocation of purchase price to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired. While outside valuation experts were used, management has the ultimate responsibility for the valuation methods, models and inputs used and the resulting purchase price allocation. Critical estimates used in valuing tangible assets associated with the ADESA Acquisition include, but are not limited to, the similarity of the acquired real property to market comparable transactions, costs of similar personal property in new condition, and economic obsolescence rates. Critical estimates used in valuing identifiable intangible assets associated with the ADESA Acquisition include, but are not limited to, revenues and attrition rate. 
