CIK: 1750
Company Name: AAR CORP
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2019-07-18
Accession Number: 0001047469-19-004266


ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Dollars in millions) Forward-Looking Statements Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contain certain statements relating to future results, which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on the beliefs of management, as well as assumptions and estimates based on information available to us as of the dates such assumptions and estimates are made, and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated, depending on a variety of factors, including those factors discussed under Item 1A, "Risk Factors." Should one or more of those risks or uncertainties materialize adversely, or should underlying assumptions or estimates prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described. Those events and uncertainties are difficult or impossible to predict accurately and many are beyond our control. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events. General Overview We report our activities in two business segments: Aviation Services comprised of supply chain and maintenance, repair and overhaul ("MRO") activities and Expeditionary Services comprised of manufacturing activities. In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we re-aligned the composition of our operating segments to leverage the full breadth of our operational expertise in Aviation Services. Our government-owned, contractor-operated operations (which includes the INL/A WASS program) were previously included in our Expeditionary Services segment and are now reported within our Aviation Services segment for all periods presented. The Aviation Services segment consists of aftermarket support and services offerings that provide spare parts and maintenance support for aircraft operated by our commercial and government/defense customers. Sales in the Aviation Services segment are derived from the sale and lease of a wide variety of new, overhauled and repaired engine and airframe parts and components to the commercial aviation and government and defense markets. We provide customized inventory supply chain management, performance based logistics programs, customer fleet management and operations, and aircraft component repair management services. The segment also includes repair, maintenance and overhaul of aircraft, landing gear and components. Cost of sales consists principally of the cost of product, direct labor, and overhead. The Expeditionary Services segment consists of primarily manufacturing operations with sales derived from the design and manufacture of pallets, shelters, and containers used to support the U.S. military's requirements for a mobile and agile force including engineering, design, and system integration services for specialized command and control systems. This segment also designs and manufactures advanced composite materials for commercial, business and military aircraft. Cost of sales consists principally of the cost of material to manufacture products, direct labor and overhead. Our chief operating decision making officer (Chief Executive Officer) evaluates performance based on the reportable segments and utilizes gross profit as a primary profitability measure. Gross profit is calculated by subtracting cost of sales from sales. The assets and certain expenses related to corporate activities are not allocated to the segments. Our reportable segments are aligned principally around differences in products and services. 21 Table of Contents At the beginning of fiscal 2019, we adopted Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers ("ASC 606") using a modified retrospective method and as a result, the comparative information has not been restated and is reported under accounting standards in effect for those years. See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Fiscal 2019 was a year focused on growth and execution of a number of important programs and strategic initiatives. We succeeded in building customer relationships with multiple international commercial and government customers. Our parts supply activities were extremely strong and we also invested to support our growth. In fiscal 2019, we completed the ramp-up of the INL/A WASS contract for the DoS. This contract leverages our capabilities in aviation services, including flight operations, supply chain logistics, and other services. We are the prime contractor on this 10-year performance-based contract to globally operate and maintain the DoS fleet of fixed- and rotary-wing aircraft. We have full operational capability at all contract sites, which include Afghanistan, Iraq, Panama, Peru, Costa Rica and Patrick Air Force Base as well as support locations in Brevard County, Florida. We also completed the ramp-up of the 15-year, U.S. Air Force Landing Gear Performance-Based Logistics One program. Under the program, we are providing total supply chain management including purchasing, distribution and inventory control to support all landing gear components for the U.S. Air Force's fleet of C-130, KC-135 and E-3 aircraft. We also entered into an agreement to sell certain contracts and assets of our COCO business, which is classified as a discontinued operation. We expect the sale to close before the end of calendar 2019 and our exit of this business is consistent with the realignment of our strategy. Our long-term strategy continues to emphasize investing in the business as well as returning capital to shareholders. Over the past three years, we have returned $74.2 million to shareholders through common stock repurchases of $43.2 million and dividends of $31.0 million. Business Trends and Outlook for Fiscal 2020 Consolidated sales for fiscal 2019 increased $303.5 million or 17.4% over the prior year primarily due to an increase in sales of $284.8 million or 17.4% in our Aviation Services segment. This increase was driven by strong growth in our aviation supply chain activities including the INL/A WASS program, which achieved full operational capability in June 2018. For fiscal 2020, we expect to see continued strength in our Aviation Services segment given its offerings of value-added services to both commercial and government and defense customers. We believe long-term aftermarket growth trends are favorable. We remain in a strong financial position to further execute on our strategy in fiscal 2020. Both our segments are executing on our many contract wins across the commercial and government markets. Our cash on hand plus unused capacities on our Revolving Credit Facility and accounts receivable financing program was $465 million at May 31, 2019. We expect to invest opportunistically in support of our businesses and customers. We continue to have the flexibility in our balance sheet to invest in our growth. 22 Table of Contents Results of Operations Fiscal 2019 Compared with Fiscal 2018 Sales and gross profit for our two business segments for the two years ended May 31, 2019 and 2018 were as follows: For the Year Ended May 31, 2019 2018 % Change Sales: Aviation Services Commercial $ 1,342.3 $ 1,281.9 4.7 % Government and defense 578.3 353.9 63.4 % $ 1,920.6 $ 1,635.8 17.4 % Expeditionary Services Commercial $ 31.6 $ 37.5 (15.7 )% Government and defense 99.6 75.0 32.8 % $ 131.2 $ 112.5 16.6 % For the Year Ended May 31, 2019 2018 % Change Gross Profit: Aviation Services Commercial $ 195.4 $ 203.8 (4.1 )% Government and defense 117.9 71.5 64.9 % $ 313.3 $ 275.3 13.8 % Expeditionary Services Commercial $ 3.0 $ 8.3 (63.9 )% Government and defense 13.2 11.0 20.0 % $ 16.2 $ 19.3 (16.1 )% Aviation Services Segment Sales in the Aviation Services segment increased $284.8 million or 17.4% over the prior year primarily due to a $224.4 million or 63.4% increase in sales to government and defense customers. The increase in sales to government and defense customers was primarily attributable to the INL/A WASS program, which achieved full operational capability in June 2018. During fiscal 2019, sales in this segment to commercial customers increased $60.4 million or 4.7% over the prior year. The increase was primarily due to increased demand in our supply chain activities. Changes in estimates and assumptions related to our programs accounted for using the cost-to-cost method are recorded using the cumulative catch-up method of accounting. In fiscal 2019, we recognized favorable and unfavorable cumulative catch-up adjustments of $8.0 million and $2.1 million, respectively, compared to favorable and unfavorable cumulative catch-up adjustments of $11.6 million and $8.0 million, respectively, in fiscal 2018. When considering these adjustments on a net basis, we recognized favorable cumulative catch-up adjustments of $5.9 million and $3.6 million for fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively. These adjustments primarily relate to our long-term programs where we provide component inventory management and/or repair services. Cost of sales in Aviation Services increased $246.8 million or 18.1% over the prior year which was in line with the sales increase discussed above. Gross profit in the Aviation Services segment increased 23 Table of Contents $38.0 million or 13.8% over the prior year. Gross profit on sales to government and defense customers increased $46.4 million or 64.9% over the prior year primarily driven by the INL/A WASS program. The gross profit margin increased to 20.4% from 20.2% in the prior year primarily due to as a result of the mix of products and services sold. Gross profit in this segment on sales to commercial customers decreased $8.4 million or 4.1% from the prior year primarily driven by labor shortages in our MRO activities as we were not able to secure an adequate supply of labor to meet current demand from our customers. The gross profit margin on sales to commercial customers was 14.6% compared to 15.9% in the prior year with the decreased margin largely attributable to labor challenges at our airframe maintenance hangars. Expeditionary Services Segment Sales in the Expeditionary Services segment increased $18.7 million or 16.6% over the prior year primarily due to stronger demand for our mobility products. Gross profit in the Expeditionary Services segment decreased $3.1 million or 16.1% from the prior year and gross profit margin decreased to 12.3% from 17.2% both primarily as a result of the mix of products sold with lower sales volumes from our commercial customers. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $7.3 million over the prior year. As a percent of sales, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased to 10.5% from 11.9% in the prior year reflecting improved leverage of our existing cost structure to support the sales growth. Interest Expense Interest expense increased $1.5 million in fiscal 2019 as a result of higher interest rates on our Revolving Credit Facility. Income Taxes On December 22, 2017, the President of the United States signed into law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Reform Act") which significantly revised the U.S. corporate income tax system. The Tax Reform Act, among other things, reduced the corporate federal income tax rate to 21% from 35%, changed bonus depreciation regulations and limited deductions for executive compensation. The income tax rate reduction in the Tax Reform Act was effective January 1, 2018, which resulted in a blended federal statutory tax rate of 29.2% in fiscal 2018 and the fiscal 2019 federal statutory tax rate of 21.0%. In fiscal 2018, we re-measured our deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the tax rate at which they are expected to reverse in the future, which was either at a federal rate of 29.2% for reversals expected in fiscal 2018 or 21% for reversals in fiscal 2019 and subsequent years. During fiscal 2018, we recognized an income tax benefit of $14.1 million for the re-measurement impact from applying the provisions of the Tax Reform Act. Our fiscal 2019 effective income tax rate for continuing operations was 5.5% compared to 4.5% in the prior year. In addition to the Tax Reform Act impacts discussed above, we also recognized tax benefits of $5.1 million and $2.1 million in fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively, related to the reversal of certain state valuation allowances based on the recoverability of the net operating losses and other state deferred tax assets. The effective income tax rate for fiscal 2019 also includes a benefit of $4.7 million related to the recognition of previously unrecognized uncertain tax positions and a tax benefit of $1.8 million related to tax provision to federal income tax return filing differences. 24 Table of Contents Discontinued Operations During the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we decided to pursue the sale of our COCO business previously included in our Expeditionary Services segment. Due to this strategic shift, the assets, liabilities, and results of operations of our COCO business were reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Loss from discontinued operations was $76.6 million in fiscal 2019 compared to a loss of $58.1 million in the prior year. The increase of $18.5 million was primarily due to higher pre-tax impairment charges of $74.1 million in fiscal 2019 as compared to $64.0 million in fiscal 2018. Results of Operations Fiscal 2018 Compared with Fiscal 2017 Sales and gross profit for our two business segments for the two years ended May 31, 2018 and 2017 were as follows: For the Year Ended May 31, 2018 2017 % Change Sales: Aviation Services Commercial $ 1,281.9 $ 1,114.9 15.0 % Government and defense 353.9 370.5 (4.5 )% $ 1,635.8 $ 1,485.4 10.1 % Expeditionary Services Commercial $ 37.5 $ 37.1 1.1 % Government and defense 75.0 68.3 9.8 % $ 112.5 $ 105.4 6.7 % For the Year Ended May 31, 2018 2017 % Change Gross Profit: Aviation Services Commercial $ 203.8 $ 183.1 11.3 % Government and defense 71.5 62.9 13.7 % $ 275.3 $ 246.0 11.9 % Expeditionary Services Commercial $ 8.3 $ 8.2 1.2 % Government and defense 11.0 9.2 19.6 % $ 19.3 $ 17.4 10.9 % Aviation Services Segment Sales in the Aviation Services segment increased $150.4 million or 10.1% over the prior year due to a $167.0 million or 15.0% increase in sales to commercial customers. The increase in sales to commercial customers was primarily attributable to higher volumes in aviation supply chain activities driven by new contract awards. During fiscal 2018, sales in this segment to government and defense customers decreased $16.6 million or 4.5% from the prior year. The decrease was primarily due to the wind-down of our KC-10 program. 25 Table of Contents Changes in estimates and assumptions related to our programs accounted for using the cost-to-cost method are recorded using the cumulative catch-up method of accounting. In fiscal 2018, we recognized favorable and unfavorable cumulative catch-up adjustments of $11.6 million and $8.0 million, respectively, compared to favorable and unfavorable cumulative catch-up adjustments of $9.2 million and $0.7 million, respectively, in fiscal 2017. When considering these adjustments on a net basis, we recognized favorable cumulative catch-up adjustments of $3.6 million and $8.5 million for fiscal 2018 and 2017, respectively. These adjustments primarily relate to our long-term programs where we provide component inventory management and/or repair services. Cost of sales in Aviation Services increased $121.1 million or 9.8% over the prior year which was in line with the sales increase discussed above. Gross profit in the Aviation Services segment increased $29.3 million or 11.9% over the prior year. Gross profit on sales to commercial customers increased $20.7 million or 11.3% over the prior year primarily driven by the higher volumes in aviation supply chain activities. The gross profit margin on sales to commercial customers was 15.9% compared to 16.4% in the prior year and was largely attributable to labor challenges at our airframe maintenance hangars. Gross profit in this segment on sales to government and defense customers increased $8.6 million or 13.7% from the prior year primarily due to improved profitability on new contract awards including the start of our services on the INL/A WASS program on November 1, 2017. The gross profit margin increased to 20.2% from 17.0% primarily due to these new contract awards. Expeditionary Services Segment Sales in the Expeditionary Services segment increased $7.1 million or 6.7% over the prior year primarily due to stronger demand for our mobility products. Gross profit in the Expeditionary Services segment increased $1.9 million over the prior year primarily due to these higher volumes. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $29.1 million in fiscal 2018 or 16.3% from the prior year primarily attributable to supporting our sales growth, including increased personnel-related costs and business development activities. Interest Expense Interest expense increased $2.7 million in fiscal 2018 over the prior year primarily as a result of higher borrowings and higher interest rates on our Revolving Credit Facility. We entered into a Credit Agreement with the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, as lender (the "Credit Agreement") on October 18, 2017. The Credit Agreement provided a Canadian $31 million term loan with the proceeds used to fund the acquisition of two MRO facilities in Canada from Premier Aviation. Income Taxes The income tax rate reduction in the Tax Reform Act resulted in a blended federal statutory tax rate for the Company of 29.2% in fiscal 2018 compared to 35.0% in fiscal 2017. Due to the reduction in our tax rate in fiscal 2018 and in future years, we re-measured our deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the tax rate at which they are expected to reverse in the future which resulted in an income tax benefit of $14.1 million in fiscal 2018. Effective June 1, 2017, we adopted Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-09 which requires excess tax benefits or deficiencies for restricted shares and stock options to be recognized as income tax expense or benefit in the period shares vest or options are exercised rather than within equity. We recognized $2.9 million of excess tax benefits as an income tax benefit during fiscal 2018. 26 Table of Contents Our fiscal 2018 effective income tax rate for continuing operations was 4.5% compared to 32.6% in the prior year. In addition to the tax benefits discussed above, we also recognized a tax benefit in fiscal 2018 of $2.1 million related to the reversal of certain state valuation allowances based on the recoverability of the net operating losses and other state deferred tax assets. The effective income tax rate for fiscal 2017 includes a benefit of $2.2 million related to recognition of previously unrecognized uncertain tax positions. Discontinued Operations Loss from discontinued operations was $58.1 million in fiscal 2018 compared to income of $4.5 million in the prior year. The decrease of $62.6 million was primarily due to goodwill and other asset impairment pre-tax charges of $65.2 million in fiscal 2018 and the completion of certain long-term customer contracts in the second quarter of fiscal 2018. Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Position Our operating activities are funded and commitments met through the generation of cash from operations. In addition to operations, our current capital resources include an unsecured Revolving Credit Facility and an accounts receivable financing program. Periodically, we may also raise capital through common stock and debt financings in the public or private markets. We continually evaluate various financing arrangements, including the issuance of common stock or debt, which would allow us to improve our liquidity position and finance future growth on commercially reasonable terms. Our continuing ability to borrow from our lenders and issue debt and equity securities to the public and private markets in the future may be negatively affected by a number of factors, including the overall health of the credit markets, general economic conditions, airline industry conditions, geo-political events, and our operating performance. Our ability to generate cash from operations is influenced primarily by our operating performance and changes in working capital. At May 31, 2019, our liquidity and capital resources included cash of $21.3 million and working capital of $595.0 million. We maintain a Revolving Credit Facility with various financial institutions, as lenders and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent for the lenders, which provides the Company an aggregate revolving credit commitment amount of $500 million and matures November 1, 2021. The Company, under certain circumstances, has the ability to request an increase to the revolving credit commitment by an aggregate amount of up to $250 million, not to exceed $750 million in total. Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility bear interest at the offered Eurodollar Rate plus 100 to 200 basis points based on certain financial measurements if a Eurodollar Rate loan, or at the offered fluctuating Base Rate plus 0 to 100 basis points based on certain financial measurements if a Base Rate loan. Borrowings outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility at May 31, 2019 were $120.0 million and there were approximately $20.1 million of letters of credit outstanding, which reduced the availability of the Revolving Credit Facility to $359.9 million. There are no other terms or covenants limiting the availability of the Revolving Credit Facility. As of May 31, 2019, we also had other financing arrangements that did not limit our availability on the Revolving Credit Facility including outstanding letters of credit of $11.6 million and foreign lines of credit of $9.5 million. On October 18, 2017, we entered into the Credit Agreement with the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, as lender. The Credit Agreement provided a Canadian $31 million term loan with the proceeds used to fund the acquisition of two maintenance, repair, and overhaul facilities in Canada from Premier Aviation. The term loan is due in full at the expiration of the Credit Agreement on November 1, 2021 unless terminated earlier pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement. Interest is payable monthly 27 Table of Contents on the term loan at the offered fluctuating Canadian Dollar Offer Rate plus 125 to 225 basis points based on certain financial measurements if a Bankers' Acceptances loan, or at the offered fluctuating Prime Rate plus 25 to 125 basis points based on certain financial measurements, if a Prime Rate loan. On February 23, 2018, we entered into a Purchase Agreement with Citibank N.A. ("Purchaser") for the sale, from time to time, of certain accounts receivable due from certain customers (the "Purchase Agreement"). Under the Purchase Agreement, the maximum amount of receivables sold is limited to $150 million. The term of the Purchase Agreement runs through February 22, 2020, however, the Purchase Agreement may also be terminated earlier under certain circumstances. The term of the Purchase Agreement shall be automatically extended for annual terms unless either party provides advance notice that they do not intend to extend the term. As of May 31, 2019 and 2018, we had sold $66.4 million and $61.2 million, respectively, of receivables to the Purchaser for which we had not yet collected payment from the customer via our role as servicer for the Purchaser's receivables. We have collected cash of $19.8 million and $10.5 million as of May 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, which has been collected on behalf of the Purchaser and not yet remitted to the Purchaser. This cash collected was classified as Restricted cash on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. At May 31, 2019, we complied with all financial and other covenants under each of our financing arrangements. Cash Flows Fiscal 2019 Compared with Fiscal 2018 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided from operating activities continuing operations was $60.5 million in fiscal 2019 compared to $55.8 million in fiscal 2018. The increase of $4.7 million was primarily attributable to increased cash receipts on new government programs largely offset by increased investments in inventory and rotable assets to support sales growth. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities continuing operations was $18.5 million in fiscal 2019 compared to $38.6 million in fiscal 2018. In fiscal 2018, we acquired the outstanding shares of two MRO facilities in Canada owned by Premier Aviation for approximately $24.8 million which included $22.9 million paid at closing. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities continuing operations was $47.3 million in fiscal 2019 compared to cash provided by financing activities of $11.7 million in fiscal 2018. The additional cash used of $59.0 million was primarily attributable to increased debt service in fiscal 2019 which included the retirement of our industrial revenue bonds for $25 million. In addition, fiscal 2018 included the proceeds from a new term loan of $24.8 million to finance the acquisition of the two Canadian MRO facilities previously discussed. Cash Flows Fiscal 2018 Compared with Fiscal 2017 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided from operating activities continuing operations was $55.8 million in fiscal 2018 compared to a use of cash of $13.5 million in fiscal 2017. The increase of $69.3 million was primarily attributable to the new Purchase Agreement entered into during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 for the sale of certain accounts receivable. During fiscal 2018, we sold $239.6 million of receivables to the Purchaser and collected $178.4 million on behalf of the Purchaser. 28 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities continuing operations was $38.6 million in fiscal 2018 compared to $33.9 million in fiscal 2017. In fiscal 2018, we acquired the outstanding shares of two MRO facilities in Canada owned by Premier Aviation for approximately $24.8 million which included $22.9 million paid at closing. During fiscal 2017, we acquired the trading business of ACLAS Global Limited ("ACLAS") for $12.0 million paid at closing with $3.0 million in deferred consideration payable over the next three years. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash provided from financing activities continuing operations was $11.7 million in fiscal 2018 compared to cash used of $10.4 million in fiscal 2017. The additional cash provided of $22.1 million was primarily attributable to proceeds from a new term loan of $24.8 million to finance the acquisition of the two Canadian MRO facilities previously discussed. Contractual Obligations and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements A summary of contractual cash obligations and off-balance sheet arrangements as of May 31, 2019 is as follows: Payments Due by Period Total Due in Fiscal 2020 Due in Fiscal 2021 Due in Fiscal 2022 Due in Fiscal 2023 Due in Fiscal 2024 After Fiscal 2025 On Balance Sheet: Bank borrowings $ 120.0 $ $ $ 120.0 $ $ $ Interest 1 12.3 5.1 5.1 2.1 Off Balance Sheet: Facilities and equipment operating leases 121.5 21.6 19.3 16.5 13.2 11.0 39.9 Purchase obligations 2 384.6 322.3 53.8 7.8 0.6 0.1 Pension contribution 3 1.6 1.6 Notes: 1 Interest associated with variable rate debt was determined using the interest rate in effect on May 31, 2019. 2 Purchase obligations arise in the ordinary course of business and represent a binding commitment to acquire inventory, including raw materials, parts, and components, as well as equipment to support the operations of our business. 3 We anticipate contributing approximately $1.6 million to our pension plans during fiscal 2020 compared to contributions of $2.6 million in fiscal 2019. 4 The above table excludes any tax liability payments, including any payments related to unrecognized tax benefits. We routinely issue letters of credit and performance bonds in the ordinary course of business. These instruments are typically issued in conjunction with insurance contracts or other business requirements. The total of these instruments outstanding at May 31, 2019 was $31.7 million. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates Our Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Management has made estimates and assumptions relating to the reporting of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities to prepare the Consolidated 29 Table of Contents Financial Statements. The most significant estimates made by management include those related to assumptions used in assessing goodwill impairment, adjustments to reduce the value of inventories and certain rotable assets, revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, and assumptions used in determining pension plan obligations. Accordingly, actual results could differ materially from those estimates. The following is a summary of the accounting policies considered critical by management. Goodwill Under accounting standards for goodwill and other intangible assets, goodwill and other intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized, but are subject to annual impairment tests. We review and evaluate our goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets for potential impairment at a minimum annually, on May 31, or more frequently if circumstances indicate that impairment is possible. The accounting standards for goodwill allow for either a qualitative or quantitative approach for the annual impairment test. Under the qualitative approach, factors such as macroeconomic conditions, industry and market conditions and company-specific events or circumstances are assessed to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. When the quantitative approach is utilized, we compare the fair value of each reporting unit with the carrying value of the reporting unit, including goodwill. If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying value of the reporting unit, we would be required to recognize an impairment loss for the excess carrying value of the reporting unit's assets. In fiscal 2018, we performed an interim goodwill impairment test over our former Airlift reporting unit as a result of a decision to exit our COCO business. The COCO business was reclassified to discontinued operations and goodwill was allocated to the COCO business based on its relative fair value to the reporting unit. The fair value of the reporting unit was determined based on a combination of the expected net proceeds upon sale and a discounted cash flow analysis. As the fair value of the COCO business was below its carrying value, a goodwill impairment charge of $9.8 million was recorded in the third quarter of fiscal 2018. As of May 31, 2019, we had three reporting units, which included two in our Aviation Services segment (Aviation Supply Chain and Maintenance, Repair, and Overhaul) and one comprised of our Expeditionary Services segment, which were evaluated for impairment Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other . For our annual impairment test as of May 31, 2019, we utilized the qualitative assessment approach for all reporting units. Under this approach, we considered the overall industry and market conditions related to the aerospace and government/defense markets as well as conditions in the global capital markets. We also considered the long-term forecasts for each reporting unit, which incorporated specific opportunities and risks, working capital requirements, and capital expenditure needs. Upon completion of the annual qualitative analysis as of May 31, 2019 for our reporting units, we concluded it was more likely than not that the fair value of each reporting unit exceeded its carrying values, and thus no impairment charge was recorded. Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market (estimated net realizable value). Cost is determined by the specific identification, average cost or first-in, first-out methods. Write-downs are made for excess and obsolete inventories and inventories that have been impaired as a result of industry conditions. We have utilized certain assumptions when determining the market value of inventories, such as inventory quantities and aging, historical sales of inventory, current and expected future aviation usage trends, replacement values, expected future demand, and historical scrap recovery rates. Reductions in demand for certain of our inventories or declining market values, as well as differences between actual 30 Table of Contents results and the assumptions utilized by us when determining the market value of our inventories, could result in the recognition of impairment charges in future periods. Revenue Recognition Revenue is measured based on consideration specified in a contract with a customer, and excludes any sales incentives and amounts collected on behalf of third parties. We recognize revenue when we satisfy a performance obligation by transferring control over a product or service to a customer. Our unit of accounting for revenue recognition is a performance obligation included in our customer contracts. A performance obligation reflects the distinct good or service that we must transfer to a customer. At contract inception, we evaluate if the contract should be accounted for as a single performance obligation or if the contract contains multiple performance obligations. In some cases, our contract with the customer is considered one performance obligation as it includes factors such as whether the good or service being provided is significantly integrated with other promises in the contract, whether the service provided significantly modifies or customizes another good or service or whether the good or service is highly interdependent or interrelated. If the contract has more than one performance obligation, we determine the standalone price of each distinct good or service underlying each performance obligation and allocates the transaction price based on their relative standalone selling prices. The transaction price of a contract, which can include both fixed and variable amounts, is allocated to each performance obligation identified. Some contracts contain variable consideration, which could include incremental fees or penalty provisions related to performance. Variable consideration that can be reasonably estimated based on current assumptions and historical information is included in the transaction price at the inception of the contract but limited to the amount that is probable that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur. Variable consideration that cannot be reasonably estimated is recorded when known. Our performance obligations are satisfied over time as work progresses or at a point in time based on transfer of control of products and services to our customers. The majority of our sales from products are recognized at a point in time upon transfer of control to the customer, which generally occurs upon shipment. In connection with certain sales of products, we also provide logistics services, which include inventory management, replenishment, and other related services. The price of such services is generally included in the price of the products delivered to the customer, and revenues are recognized upon delivery of the product, at which point the customer has obtained control of the product. We do not account for these services separate from the related product sales as the services are inputs required to fulfill part orders received from customers. For our performance obligations that are satisfied over time, we measure progress in a manner that depicts the performance of transferring control to the customer. As such, we utilize the input method of cost-to-cost to recognize revenue over time as this depicts when control of the promised goods or services are transferred to the customer. Revenue is recognized based on the relationship of actual costs incurred to date to the estimated total cost at completion of the performance obligation. We are required to make certain judgments and estimates, including estimated revenues and costs, as well as inflation and the overall profitability of the arrangement. Key assumptions involved include future labor costs and efficiencies, overhead costs, and ultimate timing of product delivery. Differences may occur between the judgments and estimates made by management and actual program results. Changes in estimates and assumptions related to our arrangements accounted for using the cost-to-cost method are recorded using the cumulative catch-up method of accounting. These changes are primarily adjustments to the estimated profitability for our long-term programs where we provide component inventory management and/or repair services. 31 Table of Contents Under most of our U.S. government contracts, if the contract is terminated for convenience, we are entitled to payment for items delivered and fair compensation for work performed, the costs of settling and paying other claims, and a reasonable profit on the costs incurred or committed. We have elected to use certain practical expedients permitted under ASC 606. Shipping and handling fees and costs incurred associated with outbound freight after control over a product has transferred to a customer are accounted for as a fulfillment cost and are included in cost of sales in our Consolidated Statements of Income, and are not considered a performance obligation to our customers. Our reported sales on our Consolidated Statements of Income are net of any sales or related non-income taxes. We also utilize the "as invoiced" practical expedient in certain cases where performance obligations are satisfied over time and the invoiced amount corresponds directly with the value we are providing to the customer. The timing of revenue recognition, customer billings, and cash collections results in a contract asset or contract liability at the end of each reporting period. Contract assets consist of unbilled receivables or costs incurred where revenue recognized over time using the cost-to-cost model exceeds the amounts billed to customers. Contract liabilities include advance payments and billings in excess of revenue recognized. Certain customers make advance payments prior to the satisfaction of our performance obligations on the contract. These amounts are recorded as contract liabilities until such performance obligations are satisfied, either over time as costs are incurred or at a point in time when deliveries are made. Contract assets and contract liabilities are determined on a contract-by-contract basis. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts to reflect the expected uncollectibility of accounts receivable based on past collection history and specific risks identified among uncollected accounts. In determining the required allowance, we consider factors such as general and industry-specific economic conditions, customer credit history, and our customers' current and expected future financial performance. The majority of our customers are recurring customers with an established payment history. Certain customers are required to undergo an extensive credit check prior to delivery of products or services. We perform regular evaluations of customer payment experience, current financial condition, and risk analysis. We may require collateral in the form of security interests in assets, letters of credit, and/or obligation guarantees from financial institutions for transactions executed on other than normal trade terms. We also maintain trade credit insurance for certain customers to provide coverage, up to a certain limit, in the event of insolvency of some customers. In fiscal 2019, we recognized a provision for doubtful accounts of $12.4 million related to the bankruptcy of a European airline customer. The provision consisted of impairment of non-current contract assets of $7.6 million, allowance for doubtful accounts of $3.3 million, and other liabilities of $1.5 million. In addition, we currently have past due accounts receivable owed by former commercial program customers primarily related to our exit from customer contracts in certain geographies, including Colombia, Peru, and Poland. Our past due accounts receivable owed by these customers was $12.4 million as of May 31, 2019 which was net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $8.2 million. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets We are required to test for impairment of long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable from its undiscounted cash flows. When applying accounting standards addressing impairment of long-lived assets, we have utilized certain assumptions to estimate future undiscounted cash flows, including current and future sales volumes or lease rates, expected changes to cost structures, lease terms, residual values, market conditions, and trends impacting future demand. Differences between actual results and the assumptions utilized by us when determining undiscounted cash flows could result in future impairments of long-lived assets. During 32 Table of Contents the third quarter of fiscal 2019 and second quarter of fiscal 2018, we recognized pre-tax impairment charges of $74.1 million and $54.2 million, respectively, related to assets included in our COCO business, which is classified as a discontinued operation. We maintain a significant inventory of rotable parts and equipment to service customer aircraft and components. Portions of that inventory are used parts that are often exchanged with parts removed from aircraft or components, and are reworked to a useable condition. We may have to recognize an impairment of our rotable parts and equipment if we discontinue using or servicing certain aircraft models or if an older aircraft model is phased-out in the industry. Pension Plans The projected benefit obligation for our benefit plans exceeds our plan assets by $19.3 million as of May 31, 2019. Our projected benefit obligation exceeds our plan assets for both our U.S. plans and for our Netherlands plan with the U.S. benefit plans underfunded by $9.2 million and the Netherlands plan underfunded by $10.1 million. The liabilities and net periodic cost of our pension plans are determined utilizing several actuarial assumptions, the most significant of which are the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. AAR uses discount rates to measure our benefit obligation and net periodic benefit cost for our pension plans. We used a broad population of Aa-rated corporate bonds as of May 31, 2019 to determine the discount rate assumption. All bonds were denominated in U.S. Dollars, with a minimum outstanding of $50.0 million. This population of bonds was narrowed from a broader universe of over 500 Moody's Aa-rated, non-callable (or callable with make-whole provisions) bonds by eliminating the top 10 th percentile and the bottom 40 th percentile to adjust for any pricing anomalies and to represent the bonds we would most likely select if we were to actually annuitize our pension plan liabilities. This portfolio of bonds was used to generate a yield curve and associated spot rate curve to discount the projected benefit payments for the domestic plans. The discount rate is the single level rate that produces the same result as the spot rate curve. We establish the long-term asset return assumption based on a review of historical compound average asset returns, both company-specific and relating to the broad market, as well as analysis of current market and economic information and future expectations. The current asset return assumption is supported by historical market experience for both our actual and target asset allocation. In calculating the net pension cost, the expected return on assets is applied to a calculated value on plan assets, which recognizes changes in the fair value of plan assets in a systematic manner over five years. The difference between this expected return and the actual return on plan assets is a component of the total net unrecognized gain or loss and is subject to amortization in the future. New Accounting Pronouncements Adopted In March 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU 2016-09, Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting , which amends ASC Topic 718, Compensation Stock Compensation . This ASU requires excess tax benefits or deficiencies for share-based payments to be recorded in the period shares vest as income tax expense or benefit, rather than within equity. Effective with the adoption of this ASU, cash flows related to excess tax benefits are now included in operating activities and are no longer classified as a financing activity. We adopted this ASU on June 1, 2017 and recognized excess tax benefits of $2.7 million and $2.9 million as an income tax benefit in fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively. We have also presented the excess tax benefits within operating activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for fiscal 2019 and 2018. As permitted, we adopted the statement of cash flow presentation guidance on a prospective basis with no adjustments to fiscal 2017. 33 Table of Contents In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-07, Compensation Retirement Benefits (Topic 715): Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost . This ASU requires an employer to report the service cost component of net periodic pension benefit cost in the same line item as other compensation costs for those related employees. Other components of net pension cost, including interest, expected return on plan assets, and actuarial gains and losses and settlement charges are to be presented outside of operating income. We adopted this ASU on June 1, 2018, which resulted in $1.0 million of pension income included in Other expense, net in the Consolidated Statement of Income for fiscal 2019. The Consolidated Statements of Income for fiscal years 2018 and 2017 were not restated as the non-service cost components of pension expense were not material to those fiscal years. In May 2014, the FASB issued ASC 606, which provides guidance for revenue recognition. ASC 606 superseded the revenue recognition requirements in ASC 605, Revenue Recognition , and most industry-specific guidance. We adopted ASC 606 on June 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method. Under that approach, prior periods were not restated and continue to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods. We elected to use the practical expedient allowing for the application of ASC 606 only to contracts that were not completed as of June 1, 2018. We recognized the cumulative effect of initially applying ASC 606 as a decrease of $20.4 million to the opening balance of retained earnings as of June 1, 2018. The adoption of ASC 606 impacted us in three primary areas. First, we have certain contracts in which revenue is recognized using the percentage of completion method over the expected term of the contract. Under ASC 606, the contract term used for revenue recognition purposes was shortened to exclude any unexercised customer option years or incorporate customer rights to terminate the contract without significant penalty as we do not have any enforceable rights or obligations prior to the exercise of the underlying option. The impact of this change as of June 1, 2018 resulted in the elimination of certain deferred costs and the establishment of accrued liabilities reflecting our estimated obligations under the contracts. For this change, we recognized a decrease of $22.1 million to the opening balance of retained earnings as of June 1, 2018. Second, we have contracts under which we perform repair services on customer-owned assets whereby the customer simultaneously receives the benefits of the repair. These contracts also transitioned to an over time revenue recognition model as of June 1, 2018 compared to our prior policy of recognizing revenue at the time of shipment. The impact of this change as of June 1, 2018 resulted in the elimination of certain inventory and accounts receivable amounts and the establishment of a contract asset reflecting the over time revenue recognition treatment. For this change, we recognized an increase of $1.3 million to the opening balance of retained earnings as of June 1, 2018. Third, we have certain contracts under which we manufacture products with no alternative use as the customer owns the underlying intellectual property and we have an enforceable right to payment from the customer. As a result, we now recognize revenue for these contracts over time as opposed to at the time of shipment, which was our policy prior to June 1, 2018. The impact of this change as of June 1, 2018 resulted in the elimination of certain inventory amounts and the establishment of a contract asset reflecting the over time revenue recognition treatment. For this change, we recognized an increase of $0.4 million to the opening balance of retained earnings as of June 1, 2018. New Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases . This ASU amends the existing accounting standards for lease accounting, including requiring lessees to recognize a right-of-use asset and lease liability on the balance sheet for most lease arrangements, including those classified as operating leases under the current accounting guidance. In addition, this ASU will require new qualitative and quantitative disclosures about our leasing activities. This new standard will be effective for us beginning June 1, 2019 34 Table of Contents and is required to be adopted using a modified retrospective approach. The new standard provides us an option to recognize the cumulative effect adjustment on retained earnings as of June 1, 2019 or as of the beginning of the earliest period presented. We have reviewed our lease portfolio and are finalizing implementation of the necessary processes and systems to comply with the requirements of this new ASU. This included the selection and implementation of a third-party software solution to facilitate the accounting and reporting requirements of the new ASU. We will adopt this ASU in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and apply it prospectively. We expect to elect the package of practical expedients, which permits us not to reassess under the new ASU our prior conclusions about lease identification, lease classification and initial direct costs. In addition, we will implement accounting policy elections to not separate lease and non-lease components for both lessee and lessor relationships and not capitalize any leases with terms of less than twelve months on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. We expect to recognize operating lease liabilities with corresponding right-of-use assets of approximately the same amount based on the present value of the remaining lease payments over the lease term. We do not anticipate that adoption of the ASU will have a significant impact on our results of operations or cash flows. In February 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-02, Income Statement Reporting Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income . This ASU permits the reclassification of tax effects stranded in accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings as a result of the Tax Reform Act. We continue to evaluate the impact of this ASU on our consolidated financial statements and expect to adopt this ASU in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments Credit Losses (Topic 326), Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments . This ASU requires a change in the measurement approach for credit losses on financial assets measured on an amortized cost basis from an incurred loss method to an expected loss method, thereby eliminating the requirement that a credit loss be considered probable to impact the valuation of a financial asset measured on an amortized cost basis. This ASU also requires the measurement of expected credit losses to be based on relevant information about past events, including historical experience, current conditions, and a reasonable and supportable forecast of the collectability of the related financial asset. We continue to evaluate the impact of this ASU on our consolidated financial statements and expect to adopt this ASU on June 1, 2020. 35 Table of Contents 
