CIK: 1800
Company Name: ABBOTT LABORATORIES
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2016-02-19
Accession Number: 0001047469-16-010246


ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Financial Review Abbott's revenues are derived primarily from the sale of a broad line of health care products under short-term receivable arrangements. Patent protection and licenses, technological and performance features, and inclusion of Abbott's products under a contract most impact which products are sold; price controls, competition and rebates most impact the net selling prices of products; and foreign currency translation impacts the measurement of net sales and costs. Abbott's primary products are nutritional products, branded generic pharmaceuticals, diagnostic testing products and vascular products. Sales in international markets comprise approximately 70 percent of consolidated net sales. On February 27, 2015, Abbott completed the sale of its developed markets branded generics pharmaceuticals business to Mylan Inc. (Mylan) for 110 million shares of a newly formed publicly traded entity that combined Mylan's existing business and Abbott's developed markets pharmaceuticals business. On February 10, 2015, Abbott completed the sale of its animal health business to Zoetis Inc. On January 1, 2013, Abbott completed the separation of AbbVie Inc. (AbbVie), which was formed to hold Abbott's research-based proprietary pharmaceuticals business. The historical operating results of these businesses prior to disposition or separation are excluded from Earnings from Continuing Operations and are presented on the Earnings from Discontinued Operations line in Abbott's Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Any assets or liabilities related to these businesses are being reported as held for disposition in Abbott's Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2015 and 2014. The cash flows of these businesses up through the date of disposition or separation are included in its Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for all periods presented. Over the last three years, sales growth was driven primarily by the established pharmaceuticals, nutritional and diagnostics businesses. Sales in emerging markets, which represent nearly 50 percent of total company sales, increased 17.1 percent in 2015 and 12.5 percent in 2014, excluding the impact of foreign exchange. (Emerging markets include all countries except the United States, Western Europe, Japan, Canada, Australia and New Zealand.) Over the last three years, margin improvement was driven primarily by the nutritional, diagnostics, and vascular businesses. Abbott expanded its operating margin by 120 basis points in 2015 and 200 basis points in 2014. Abbott's sales, costs, and financial position over the same period were impacted by the strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to international currencies and a challenging economic and fiscal environment in several emerging economies. In Abbott's worldwide nutritional products business, sales over the last three years were positively impacted by demographics such as an aging population and an increasing rate of chronic disease in developed markets and the rise of a middle class in many emerging markets, as well as by numerous new product introductions that leveraged Abbott's strong brands. At the same time, manufacturing and distribution process changes, lower commodity costs, and other cost reductions drove margin improvements across the business. Operating margins for this business increased from 18.7 percent in 2013 to 25.0 percent in 2015. In 2014, Abbott increased the local presence of its nutrition business in various countries by investing in its global infrastructure. Abbott opened three new manufacturing plants, one in China, one in India, and one in the United States to meet the demand for its products, and formed a strategic alliance with Fonterra, the world's largest dairy cooperative, to develop a proposed dairy farm hub in China. In Abbott's worldwide diagnostics business, sales growth over the last three years reflected continued market penetration by the Core Laboratory business in the U.S. and China, and growth in other emerging markets, most notably in Latin America. In addition, the Point of Care diagnostics business continued to expand its geographic presence in targeted developed and emerging markets. Worldwide diagnostic sales increased 7.3 percent in 2015 and 6.4 percent in 2014, excluding the impact of foreign exchange. Margin 25 improvement continued to be a key focus in 2015. Operating margins increased from 22.2 percent of sales in 2013 to 25.2 percent in 2015 as the business continued to execute on efficiency initiatives in the manufacturing and supply chain functions. The Established Pharmaceutical Products segment focuses on the sale of its products in emerging markets after the sale of its developed markets business to Mylan on February 27, 2015. The acquisition of CFR Pharmaceuticals S.A. (CFR) in September 2014 more than doubled Abbott's branded generics pharmaceutical presence in Latin America and further expanded its presence in emerging markets. Through the acquisition of Veropharm, a leading Russian pharmaceutical company in December 2014, Abbott established a manufacturing footprint in Russia and obtained a portfolio of medicines that is well aligned with Abbott's current pharmaceutical therapeutic areas of focus. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, Established Pharmaceutical sales from continuing operations increased 34.1 percent in 2015 and 14.9 percent in 2014. Excluding the impact of the 2014 acquisitions as well as the impact of foreign exchange, 2015 Established Pharmaceutical sales from continuing operations increased 13.4 percent. In the vascular business, over the last three years, Abbott has continued to develop its worldwide market-leading XIENCE drug-eluting stent (DES) franchise. The XIENCE franchise includes XIENCE V, Prime, nano, Pro, ProX, Xpedition , and Alpine. Abbott Vascular Products' latest product introduction, XIENCE Alpine , was launched in various markets across Europe and Asia in 2015 and the U.S. in late 2014. This is the only product on the market in the U.S. with an indication to treat chronic total occlusions. The XIENCE franchise maintained its market-leading global position in 2015. From 2013 to 2015, total vascular sales were flat, excluding the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange, as MitraClip, Absorb, and the endovascular franchise sales growth was almost entirely offset by pricing pressures primarily related to DES and other coronary products as well as lower DES market share in certain geographies. Operating margins improved from 32.0 percent in 2013 to 38.0 percent in 2015 as cost improvement initiatives were executed across the business. On January 30, 2016, Abbott entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Alere, Inc. (Alere). With annual sales of approximately $2.5 billion, Alere is a global leader in point of care diagnostics. The acquisition, which is expected to significantly advance Abbott's global diagnostics presence and leadership, is subject to the approval of Alere shareholders and the satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including applicable regulatory approvals. Under the terms of the agreement, Abbott will pay $56 per common share at a total expected equity value of $5.8 billion. Alere's net debt, currently $2.6 billion, will be assumed or refinanced by Abbott. In February 2016, Abbott obtained a commitment for a 364-day senior unsecured bridge term loan facility for an amount not to exceed $9 billion in conjunction with its pending acquisition of Alere. While Abbott plans to use cash on hand at the time of the acquisition from anticipated long-term borrowings to acquire Alere, the bridge facility will provide back-up financing. Abbott's short- and long-term debt totaled $9.0 billion at December 31, 2015. At December 31, 2015, Abbott's long-term debt rating was A+ by Standard and Poor's Corporation and A2 by Moody's Investors Service. As a result of the pending acquisition of Alere, Abbott's credit ratings are under review and it is anticipated that the ratings will be adjusted to reflect the increased borrowings that will be incurred to finance the acquisition. In March 2015, Abbott issued $2.5 billion of long-term debt consisting of $750 million that matures in 2020, $750 million in 2022 and $1.0 billion in 2025 with fixed interest rates of 2.0 percent, 2.55 percent, and 2.95 percent, respectively. Abbott also entered into interest rate swap contracts totaling $2.5 billion related to the debt issuance. These contracts have the effect of changing Abbott's obligation from a fixed interest rate to a variable interest rate obligation. In the fourth quarter of 2014, Abbott extinguished approximately $500 million of long-term debt that was assumed as part of the acquisition of CFR and incurred a charge of $18.3 million related to the early repayment of this debt. Abbott declared dividends of $0.98 per share in 2015 compared to $0.90 per share in 2014, a 9% increase. Dividends paid were $1.443 billion in 2015 compared to $1.342 billion in 2014. The year-over-year change in dividends reflects the impact of the increase in the dividend rate. In December 2015, Abbott 26 increased the company's quarterly dividend to $0.26 per share from $0.24 per share, effective with the dividend paid in February 2016. In addition to preparing for the close of the Alere acquisition, Abbott will focus on several other key initiatives in 2016. In the nutritional business, Abbott will continue to build its product portfolio with the introduction of new science-based products, expand in high-growth emerging markets and implement additional margin improvement initiatives. In the established pharmaceuticals business, Abbott will continue to focus on obtaining additional product approvals across numerous countries and increasing its penetration of emerging markets. In the diagnostics business, Abbott will focus on the development of next-generation instrument platforms and other advanced technologies, expansion in emerging markets, and further improvements in the segment's operating margin. In the vascular business, Abbott will continue to focus on marketing products in the coronary and endovascular franchises, and increasing MitraClip sales, as well as further clinical development of Absorb , its bioresorbable vascular scaffold (BVS) device and a further penetration of Absorb in numerous countries. In Abbott's other segments, Abbott will focus on developing differentiated technologies in higher growth markets. Critical Accounting Policies Sales Rebates In 2015, approximately 42 percent of Abbott's consolidated gross revenues were subject to various forms of rebates and allowances that Abbott recorded as reductions of revenues at the time of sale. Most of these rebates and allowances in 2015 are in the Nutritional Products and Diabetes Care segments. Abbott provides rebates to state agencies that administer the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), wholesalers, group purchasing organizations, and other government agencies and private entities. Rebate amounts are usually based upon the volume of purchases using contractual or statutory prices for a product. Factors used in the rebate calculations include the identification of which products have been sold subject to a rebate, which customer or government agency price terms apply, and the estimated lag time between sale and payment of a rebate. Using historical trends, adjusted for current changes, Abbott estimates the amount of the rebate that will be paid, and records the liability as a reduction of gross sales when Abbott records its sale of the product. Settlement of the rebate generally occurs from one to six months after sale. Abbott regularly analyzes the historical rebate trends and makes adjustments to reserves for changes in trends and terms of rebate programs. Rebates and chargebacks charged against gross sales in 2015, 2014 and 2013 amounted to approximately $2.2 billion, $2.1 billion and $1.9 billion, respectively, or 21.6 percent, 20.1 percent and 19.1 percent, respectively, based on gross sales of approximately $10.3 billion, $10.3 billion and $10.2 billion, respectively, subject to rebate. A one-percentage point increase in the percentage of rebates to related gross sales would decrease net sales by approximately $101 million in 2015. Abbott considers a one-percentage point increase to be a reasonably likely increase in the percentage of rebates to related gross sales. Other allowances charged against gross sales were approximately $124 million, $138 million and $146 million for cash discounts in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, and $238 million, $210 million and $208 million for returns in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Cash discounts are known within 15 to 30 days of sale, and therefore can be reliably estimated. Returns can be reliably estimated because Abbott's historical returns are low, and because sales returns terms and other sales terms have remained relatively unchanged for several periods. Management analyzes the adequacy of ending rebate accrual balances each quarter. In the domestic nutritional business, management uses both internal and external data available to estimate the level of inventory in the distribution channel. Management has access to several large customers' inventory management data, and for other customers, utilizes data from a third party that measures time on the retail shelf. These sources allow management to make reliable estimates of inventory in the distribution channel. Except for a transition period before or after a change in the supplier for the WIC business in a state, inventory in the distribution channel does not vary substantially. Management also estimates the states' processing lag time based on claims data. In addition, internal processing time is a factor in 27 estimating the accrual. In the WIC business, the state where the sale is made, which is the determining factor for the applicable price, is reliably determinable. Estimates are required for the amount of WIC sales within each state where Abbott has the WIC business. External data sources utilized for that estimate are participant data from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), which administers the WIC program, participant data from some of the states, and internally administered market research. The USDA has been making its data available for many years. Internal data includes historical redemption rates and pricing data. At December 31, 2015, Abbott had WIC business in 26 states. Historically, adjustments to prior years' rebate accruals have not been material to net income. Abbott employs various techniques to verify the accuracy of claims submitted to it, and where possible, works with the organizations submitting claims to gain insight into changes that might affect the rebate amounts. For government agency programs, the calculation of a rebate involves interpretations of relevant regulations, which are subject to challenge or change in interpretation. Income Taxes Abbott operates in numerous countries where its income tax returns are subject to audits and adjustments. Because Abbott operates globally, the nature of the audit items is often very complex, and the objectives of the government auditors can result in a tax on the same income in more than one country. Abbott employs internal and external tax professionals to minimize audit adjustment amounts where possible. In accordance with the accounting rules relating to the measurement of tax contingencies, in order to recognize an uncertain tax benefit, the taxpayer must be more likely than not of sustaining the position, and the measurement of the benefit is calculated as the largest amount that is more than 50 percent likely to be realized upon resolution of the benefit. Application of these rules requires a significant amount of judgment. In the U.S., Abbott's federal income tax returns through 2011 are settled except for one item, and the income tax returns for years after 2011 are open. Abbott does not record deferred income taxes on earnings reinvested indefinitely in foreign subsidiaries. Pension and Post-Employment Benefits Abbott offers pension benefits and post-employment health care to many of its employees. Abbott engages outside actuaries to assist in the determination of the obligations and costs under these programs. Abbott must develop long-term assumptions, the most significant of which are the health care cost trend rates, discount rates and the expected return on plan assets. The discount rates used to measure liabilities were determined based on high-quality fixed income securities that match the duration of the expected retiree benefits. The health care cost trend rates represent Abbott's expected annual rates of change in the cost of health care benefits and is a forward projection of health care costs as of the measurement date. A difference between the assumed rates and the actual rates, which will not be known for decades, can be significant in relation to the obligations and the annual cost recorded for these programs. Low interest rates have significantly increased actuarial losses for these plans. At December 31, 2015, pretax net actuarial losses and prior service costs and (credits) recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for Abbott's defined benefit plans and medical and dental plans were losses of $2.9 billion and $70 million, respectively. Actuarial losses and gains are amortized over the remaining service attribution periods of the employees under the corridor method, in accordance with the rules for accounting for post-employment benefits. Differences between the expected long-term return on plan assets and the actual annual return are amortized over a five-year period. Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements describes the impact of a one-percentage point change in the health care cost trend rate; however, there can be no certainty that a change would be limited to only one percentage point. Valuation of Intangible Assets Abbott has acquired and continues to acquire significant intangible assets that Abbott records at fair value. Transactions involving the purchase or sale of intangible assets occur with some frequency between companies in the health care field and valuations are usually based on a discounted cash flow analysis. The discounted cash flow model requires assumptions about the timing and amount of future net cash flows, risk, cost of capital, terminal values and market participants. Each of these factors can significantly affect the value of the intangible asset. Abbott engages independent 28 valuation experts who review Abbott's critical assumptions and calculations for acquisitions of significant intangibles. Abbott reviews definite-lived intangible assets for impairment each quarter using an undiscounted net cash flows approach. If the undiscounted cash flows of an intangible asset are less than the carrying value of an intangible asset, the intangible asset is written down to its fair value, which is usually the discounted cash flow amount. Where cash flows cannot be identified for an individual asset, the review is applied at the lowest group level for which cash flows are identifiable. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, which relate to in-process research and development acquired in a business combination, are reviewed for impairment annually or when an event that could result in impairment occurs. At December 31, 2015, goodwill amounted to $9.6 billion and intangibles amounted to $5.6 billion, and amortization expense in continuing operations for intangible assets amounted to $601 million in 2015, $555 million in 2014 and $588 million in 2013. There were no impairments of goodwill in 2015, 2014 or 2013. Litigation Abbott accounts for litigation losses in accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Codification No. 450, "Contingencies." Under ASC No. 450, loss contingency provisions are recorded for probable losses at management's best estimate of a loss, or when a best estimate cannot be made, a minimum loss contingency amount is recorded. These estimates are often initially developed substantially earlier than the ultimate loss is known, and the estimates are refined each accounting period as additional information becomes known. Accordingly, Abbott is often initially unable to develop a best estimate of loss, and therefore the minimum amount, which could be zero, is recorded. As information becomes known, either the minimum loss amount is increased, resulting in additional loss provisions, or a best estimate can be made, also resulting in additional loss provisions. Occasionally, a best estimate amount is changed to a lower amount when events result in an expectation of a more favorable outcome than previously expected. Abbott estimates the range of possible loss to be from approximately $35 million to $50 million for its legal proceedings and environmental exposures. Accruals of approximately $45 million have been recorded at December 31, 2015 for these proceedings and exposures. These accruals represent management's best estimate of probable loss, as defined by FASB ASC No. 450, "Contingencies." 29 Results of Operations Sales The following table details the components of sales growth by reportable segment for the last three years: Components of % Change Total % Change Price Volume Exchange Total Net Sales 2015 vs. 2014 0.8 (1.1 ) 10.2 (8.3 ) 2014 vs. 2013 3.0 (1.4 ) 6.9 (2.5 ) Total U.S. 2015 vs. 2014 2.2 (1.5 ) 3.7 2014 vs. 2013 (1.4 ) (3.9 ) 2.5 Total International 2015 vs. 2014 0.2 (1.0 ) 13.1 (11.9 ) 2014 vs. 2013 5.0 (0.2 ) 8.9 (3.7 ) Established Pharmaceutical Products Segment 2015 vs. 2014 19.3 0.3 33.8 (14.8 ) 2014 vs. 2013 9.0 2.1 12.8 (5.9 ) Nutritional Products Segment 2015 vs. 2014 0.3 5.5 (5.2 ) 2014 vs. 2013 3.2 0.8 4.2 (1.8 ) Diagnostic Products Segment 2015 vs. 2014 (1.6 ) (1.0 ) 8.3 (8.9 ) 2014 vs. 2013 3.9 (0.9 ) 7.3 (2.5 ) Vascular Products Segment 2015 vs. 2014 (6.5 ) (4.0 ) 5.3 (7.8 ) 2014 vs. 2013 (0.9 ) (6.4 ) 6.9 (1.4 ) The increases in Total Net Sales in 2015 and 2014 reflect unit growth, partially offset by the impact of unfavorable foreign exchange. The price declines related to Vascular Products sales in 2015 and 2014 primarily reflect pricing pressure on drug eluting stents and other coronary products as a result of market competition in the U.S. and other major markets. The impact of reimbursement reductions by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services on Abbott's Diabetes Care business also contributed to the overall 3.9% price decline in the U.S. in 2014. 30 A comparison of significant product and product group sales is as follows. Percent changes are versus the prior year and are based on unrounded numbers. (dollars in millions) 2015 Total Change Impact of Exchange Total Change Excl. Exchange Total Established Pharmaceuticals Key Emerging Markets $ 2,781 17 % (15 )% 32 % Other 939 28 (12 ) 40 Nutritionals International Pediatric Nutritionals 2,378 1 (7 ) 8 U.S. Pediatric Nutritionals 1,592 4 4 International Adult Nutritionals 1,729 (2 ) (11 ) 9 U.S. Adult Nutritionals 1,276 (2 ) (2 ) Diagnostics Immunochemistry 3,529 (2 ) (10 ) 8 Vascular Products (1) Coronary Devices 2,176 (7 ) (8 ) 1 Endovascular 520 (1 ) (7 ) 6 (1) Coronary Devices include DES/BVS product portfolio, structural heart, guidewires, balloon catheters, and other coronary products. Endovascular includes vessel closure, carotid stents and other peripheral products. (dollars in millions) 2014 Total Change Impact of Exchange Total Change Excl. Exchange Total Established Pharmaceuticals Key Emerging Markets $ 2,383 4 % (7 )% 11 % Other 735 27 (3 ) 30 Nutritionals International Pediatric Nutritionals 2,362 5 (2 ) 7 U.S. Pediatric Nutritionals 1,533 (1 ) (1 ) International Adult Nutritionals 1,756 10 (4 ) 14 U.S. Adult Nutritionals 1,302 (3 ) (3 ) Diagnostics Immunochemistry 3,614 5 (2 ) 7 Vascular Products (2) Coronary Devices 2,342 (3 ) (2 ) (1 ) Endovascular 527 11 (1 ) 12 (2) Coronary Devices include DES/BVS product portfolio, structural heart, guidewires, balloon catheters, and other coronary products. Endovascular includes vessel closure, carotid stents and other peripheral products. Excluding the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange, total Established Pharmaceutical Products sales increased 34.1 percent in 2015 and 14.9 percent in 2014. The Established Pharmaceutical Products 31 segment is focused on several key emerging markets including India, Russia, China and Brazil. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, sales in these key emerging markets increased 32.4 percent in 2015 and 11.0 percent in 2014. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, sales in Established Pharmaceuticals' other emerging markets increased 39.6 percent in 2015 and increased 30.1 percent in 2014. The increases in 2015 and 2014 include the impact of the acquisitions of CFR Pharmaceuticals in September 2014 and Veropharm in December 2014. Excluding sales from the acquisitions and the impact of foreign exchange, revenues increased 13.4% in 2015 and 7.9% in 2014. Excluding the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange, total Nutritional Products sales increased 5.5 percent in 2015 and 5.0 percent in 2014. In Abbott's International Pediatric Nutritional business, the 2015 increase in sales was driven by growth in China, Russia, and several countries in Latin America and the Middle East as a result of share gains and market growth. The increase in 2015 U.S. Pediatric Nutritional sales primarily reflects higher infant formula revenue from new product launches. Excluding the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange, the 2015 and 2014 increases in International Adult Nutritional sales are due primarily to volume growth in emerging markets and continued expansion of the adult nutrition category internationally. The decrease in 2015 and 2014 U.S. Adult Nutritional sales reflects the effects of increased competition and market dynamics in retail and institutional categories. Excluding the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange, total Diagnostic Products sales increased 7.3 percent in 2015 and 6.4 percent in 2014. The sales increases were primarily driven by share gains in the Core Laboratory markets in the U.S. and internationally. 2015 and 2014 sales of immunochemistry products, the largest category in this segment, reflect continued execution of Abbott's strategy to deliver integrated solutions to large healthcare customers. Excluding the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange, total Vascular Products sales grew 1.3% in 2015 and were virtually flat in 2014. In 2015, growth of Abbott's MitraClip structural heart product, its Endovascular business, including the Supera peripheral stent, and the Absorb bioresorbable vascular scaffold in various international markets was almost entirely offset by continued pricing pressures in DES products. Abbott has periodically sold product rights to non-strategic products and has recorded the related gains in net sales in accordance with Abbott's revenue recognition policies as discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. Related net sales were not significant in 2015, 2014 and 2013. The expiration of licenses and patent protection can affect the future revenues and operating income of Abbott. There are currently no significant patent or license expirations in the next three years that are expected to affect Abbott. Operating Earnings Gross profit margins were 54.2 percent of net sales in 2015, 51.7 percent in 2014 and 50.2 percent in 2013. The gross profit margin improvement in 2015 reflects higher margins in the Nutritional, Diagnostics, and Vascular Products segments. In the U.S., states receive price rebates from manufacturers of infant formula under the federally subsidized Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children. There are also rebate programs for pharmaceutical products in numerous countries. These rebate programs continue to have a negative effect on the gross profit margins of the Nutritional and Established Pharmaceutical Products segments. Research and development expense was $1.405 billion in 2015, $1.345 billion in 2014, and $1.371 billion in 2013 and represented a 4.5 percent increase in 2015, and a 1.9 percent decrease in 2014. The 2015 increase in research and development expenses was primarily due to higher spending across various businesses. In 2015, research and development expenditures totaled $474 million for the 32 Diagnostics Products segment, $239 million for the Vascular Products segment, $206 million for the Nutritional Products segment, and $137 million for the Established Pharmaceutical Products segment. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 3.9 percent in 2015 and 2.5 percent in 2014 versus the respective prior year. The 2015 increase reflects the impact of the CFR and Veropharm acquisitions, partially offset by the impact of cost improvement initiatives and the favorable impact of foreign exchange. The 2014 increase reflects an increase in restructuring costs associated with cost reduction initiatives and deal and other expenses related to recent acquisitions, partially offset by continued prudent cost management. Business Acquisitions In August 2015, Abbott completed the acquisition of the equity of Tendyne Holdings, Inc. (Tendyne) that Abbott did not already own for approximately $225 million in cash plus additional payments up to $150 million to be made upon completion of certain regulatory milestones. The acquisition of Tendyne, which is focused on developing minimally invasive mitral valve replacement therapies, allows Abbott to broaden its foundation in the treatment of mitral valve disease. The preliminary allocation of the fair value of the acquisition resulted in non-deductible acquired in-process research and development of approximately $220 million, which is accounted for as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until regulatory approval or discontinuation, non-deductible goodwill of approximately $142 million, other assets of approximately $13 million, net deferred tax liabilities of approximately $80 million, and contingent consideration of approximately $70 million. The preliminary allocation of fair value of the above acquisition will be finalized when the valuation is completed. In September 2014, Abbott completed the acquisition of the controlling interest in CFR Pharmaceuticals S.A. (CFR) for approximately $2.9 billion in cash ($2.8 billion net of CFR cash on hand at closing). Including the assumption of approximately $570 million of debt, the total cost of the acquisition was $3.4 billion. The acquisition of CFR more than doubles Abbott's branded generics pharmaceutical presence in Latin America and further expands its presence in emerging markets. CFR's financial results are included in Abbott's financial statements beginning on September 26, 2014, the date that Abbott acquired control of this business. Abbott currently owns 99.9% of the outstanding ordinary shares of CFR. The fair value of the non-controlling interest at the acquisition date was approximately $3 million. The acquisition was funded with cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. The final allocation of the fair value of the acquisition is shown in the table below. (in billions) Acquired intangible assets, non-deductible $ 1.87 Goodwill, non-deductible 1.42 Acquired net tangible assets 0.03 Deferred income taxes recorded at acquisition (0.40 ) Total final allocation of fair value $ 2.92 Acquired intangible assets consist primarily of product rights for currently marketed products and are amortized over 12 to 16 years (average of 15 years). The goodwill is primarily attributable to intangible assets that do not qualify for separate recognition. The goodwill is identifiable to the Established Pharmaceutical Products segment. The acquired tangible assets consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents of approximately $94 million, trade accounts receivable of approximately $180 million, inventory of approximately $169 million, other current assets of approximately $51 million, property and equipment of approximately $210 million, and other long-term assets of approximately $145 million. Assumed liabilities consist of borrowings of approximately $570 million, trade accounts payable and other current liabilities of approximately $240 million and other non-current liabilities of approximately $14 million. Net sales for CFR Pharmaceuticals totaled approximately $750 million in 2015. 33 In December 2014, Abbott acquired control of Veropharm, a leading Russian pharmaceutical company for approximately $315 million excluding assumed debt, plus a subsequent $5 million payment related to a working capital adjustment. Through this acquisition, Abbott establishes a manufacturing footprint in Russia and obtains a portfolio of medicines that is well aligned with Abbott's current pharmaceutical therapeutic areas of focus. Abbott acquired control of Veropharm through its purchase of Limited Liability Company Garden Hills, the holding company that owns approximately 98 percent of Veropharm. Including the assumption of approximately $90 million of debt and a non-controlling interest with a fair value of $5 million, the total value of the acquired business was approximately $415 million. The final allocation of the fair value of the acquisition resulted in definite-lived non-deductible intangible assets of approximately $100 million, non-deductible goodwill of approximately $140 million, and net deferred tax liabilities of approximately $25 million. Non-deductible goodwill is identifiable with the Established Pharmaceutical Products segment. Additionally, Abbott acquired property, plant, and equipment of approximately $150 million, accounts receivable of approximately $45 million, inventory of approximately $25 million, and net liabilities of approximately $20 million. Acquired intangible assets consist of developed technology and are being amortized over 16 years. In 2015, Abbott acquired the remaining shares of Veropharm, increasing its ownership to 100 percent. In December 2014, Abbott completed the acquisition of Topera, Inc. for approximately $250 million in cash, plus additional payments up to $300 million to be made upon completion of certain regulatory and sales milestones. The acquisition of Topera provides Abbott a foundational entry in the electrophysiology market. The final allocation of the fair value of the acquisition resulted in non-deductible acquired in-process research and development of approximately $60 million, which is accounted for as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until regulatory approval or discontinuation, non-deductible definite-lived intangible assets of approximately $215 million, non-deductible goodwill of approximately $145 million, net deferred tax liabilities of approximately $80 million, and contingent consideration of approximately $90 million. The fair value of the contingent consideration was determined based on an independent appraisal. Acquired intangible assets consist of developed technology and trademarks, and are being amortized over 17 years. In August 2013, Abbott acquired 100 percent of IDEV Technologies, net of debt, for $310 million, in cash. The acquisition of IDEV Technologies expands Abbott's endovascular portfolio. The allocation of the fair value of the acquisition resulted in non-deductible acquired in-process research and development of approximately $170 million which is accounted for as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until regulatory approval or discontinuation, non-deductible definite-lived intangible assets of approximately $66 million, non-deductible goodwill of approximately $112 million and net deferred tax liabilities of $47 million. Acquired intangible assets consist of developed technology and are being amortized over 11 years. In August 2013, Abbott acquired 100 percent of OptiMedica for $260 million, in cash, plus additional payments up to $150 million to be made upon completion of certain development, regulatory and sales milestones. The acquisition of OptiMedica provides Abbott with an immediate entry point into the laser assisted cataract surgery market. The allocation of the fair value of the acquisition resulted in non-deductible definite-lived intangible assets of approximately $160 million, non-deductible acquired in-process research and development of approximately $60 million which is accounted for as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until regulatory approval or discontinuation, non-deductible goodwill of approximately $130 million, net deferred tax liabilities of $49 million and contingent consideration of approximately $70 million. The fair value of the contingent consideration was determined based on an independent appraisal. Acquired intangible assets consist primarily of developed technology that is being amortized over 18 years. Had the aggregate in each year of the above acquisitions taken place as of the beginning of the comparable prior annual reporting period, consolidated net sales and earnings would not have been significantly different from reported amounts. 34 Restructurings In 2015 and 2014, Abbott management approved plans to streamline operations in order to reduce costs and improve efficiencies in various Abbott businesses including the nutritional, established pharmaceuticals and vascular businesses. Abbott recorded employee-related severance and other charges of approximately $95 million in 2015 and $164 million in 2014. Approximately $18 million in 2015 and $20 million in 2014 are recorded in Cost of products sold, approximately $34 million in 2015 and $53 million in 2014 are recorded in Research and development and approximately $43 million in 2015 and $91 million in 2014 are recorded in Selling, general and administrative expense. Additional charges of approximately $45 million in 2015 and $39 million in 2014 were recorded primarily for accelerated depreciation. From 2013 to 2015, Abbott management approved various plans to reduce costs and improve efficiencies across various functional areas. In 2013, Abbott management also approved plans to streamline certain manufacturing operations in order to reduce costs and improve efficiencies in Abbott's established pharmaceuticals business. In 2012, Abbott management approved plans to streamline various commercial operations in order to reduce costs and improve efficiencies in Abbott's core diagnostics, established pharmaceuticals and nutritionals businesses. Abbott recorded employee-related severance charges of approximately $66 million in 2015, $125 million in 2014 and $78 million in 2013. Approximately $9 million in 2015, $7 million in 2014 and $14 million in 2013 are recorded in Cost of products sold, approximately $2 million in 2015 and $6 million in 2014 are recorded in Research and development, and approximately $55 million in 2015, $112 million in 2014 and $32 million in 2013 are recorded in Selling, general and administrative expense. The remaining charge of $32 million in 2013 is related to Abbott's developed market established pharmaceutical business and is being recognized in the results of discontinued operations. Additional charges of approximately $4 million in 2013 were also recorded primarily for accelerated depreciation. In 2013 and prior years, Abbott management approved plans to streamline global manufacturing operations, reduce overall costs and improve efficiencies in its worldwide pharmaceutical, vascular and core diagnostics businesses as well as selected domestic and international commercial and research and development operations. Abbott recorded charges for employee severance as well as for the impairment of manufacturing facilities and other assets. In 2013 Abbott recorded employee severance charges of approximately $11 million which was classified as cost of products sold. An additional $41 million was recorded in 2013 relating to these restructurings, primarily for accelerated depreciation. Interest Expense and Interest (Income) In 2015, interest expense increased due to the issuance of $2.5 billion of long-term debt during the year. In 2014, interest expense increased due to a higher level of short-term borrowings during the year. In 2013, interest expense decreased due to a lower level of borrowings, which resulted from the transfer of approximately $14.6 billion of debt to AbbVie as part of the separation. Interest income increased in 2015 and 2014 due to a higher return earned on short-term investments during the year. Other (Income) Expense, net Other (income) expense, net, for 2015 includes a pretax gain on the sale of a portion of the Mylan N.V. shares received through the sale of the developed markets branded generics pharmaceuticals business and income resulting from a decrease in the fair value of contingent consideration related to a business acquisition; 2014 includes charges associated with the impairment of certain equity investments partially offset by gains on sales of investments. 2013 includes gains on sales of investments. 35 Net Loss on Extinguishment of Debt In 2014, Abbott extinguished approximately $500 million of long-term debt assumed as part of the CFR Pharmaceuticals acquisition and incurred a cost of $18.3 million to extinguish this debt. Taxes on Earnings The income tax rates on earnings from continuing operations were 18.1 percent in 2015, 31.6 percent in 2014 and 2.6 percent in 2013. In 2015, taxes on earnings from continuing operations includes $71 million of tax expense related to gain on the disposal of shares of Mylan N.V. stock. The 2015 effective tax rate includes the impact of the R&D tax credit that was made permanent in the U.S. by the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act of 2015. In 2014, taxes on earnings from continuing operations include $440 million of tax expense associated with a one-time repatriation of 2014 non-U.S. earnings partially offset by $125 million of tax benefits related to the resolution of various tax positions and the adjustment of tax uncertainties from prior years. 2013 taxes on earnings from continuing operations include $230 million of tax benefit related to the resolution of various tax positions from previous years. In addition, as a result of the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 signed into law in January 2013, Abbott recorded a tax benefit to taxes on continuing operations of approximately $103 million in 2013 for the retroactive extension of the research tax credit and the look-through rules of section 954(c)(6) of the Internal Revenue Code to the beginning of 2012. Exclusive of these discrete items, tax expense was favorably impacted by lower tax rates and tax exemptions on foreign income primarily derived from operations in Puerto Rico, Switzerland, Ireland, the Netherlands, and Singapore. Abbott benefits from a combination of favorable statutory tax rules, tax rulings, grants, and exemptions in these tax jurisdictions. See Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for a full reconciliation of the effective tax rate to the U.S. federal statutory rate. 2015 tax expense related to discontinued operations includes $667 million of tax expense on certain current-year funds earned outside of the U.S. that were not designated as permanently reinvested overseas. Abbott accrued U.S. taxes on approximately $2.2 billion of 2014 earnings generated outside the U.S. in connection with a repatriation of these earnings. In addition to the $440 million of tax expense discussed above, the repatriation resulted in $82 million of additional tax expense in Abbott's 2014 income from discontinued operations. Abbott expects to accelerate the utilization of deferred tax assets and therefore cash taxes due in the U.S. on this repatriation are not expected to be material. Discontinued Operations and Separation of AbbVie Inc. On February 27, 2015, Abbott completed the sale of its developed markets branded generics pharmaceuticals business to Mylan Inc. (Mylan) for equity ownership of a newly formed entity (Mylan N.V.) that combined Mylan's existing business and Abbott's developed markets pharmaceuticals business. Mylan N.V. is publicly traded. Historically, this business was included in Abbott's Established Pharmaceutical Products segment. At the date of the closing, the 110 million Mylan N.V. shares that Abbott received were valued at $5.77 billion and Abbott recorded an after -tax gain on the sale of the business of approximately $1.6 billion. Abbott retained its branded generics pharmaceuticals business in emerging markets. At the close of this transaction, Abbott and Mylan entered into a transition services agreement pursuant to which Abbott and Mylan are providing various back office support services to each other on an interim transitional basis. Transition services may be provided for up to 2 years. Charges by Abbott under this transition services agreement are recorded as a reduction of the costs to provide the respective service in the applicable expense category in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. This transitional support does not constitute significant continuing involvement in Mylan's operations. Abbott also entered into manufacturing supply agreements with Mylan related to certain products, with the supply term ranging from 3 to 10 years and requiring a 2 year notice prior to termination. The cash flows associated with these transition services and manufacturing supply agreements are not expected to be 36 significant, and therefore, these cash flows are not direct cash flows of the disposed component under Accounting Standards Codification 205. On February 10, 2015, Abbott completed the sale of its animal health business to Zoetis Inc. As a result of the disposition of the above businesses, the current and prior years' operating results of these businesses up to the date of sale are reported as part of discontinued operations on the Earnings from Discontinued Operations, net of taxes line in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Discontinued operations include an allocation of interest expense assuming a uniform ratio of consolidated debt to equity for all of Abbott's historical operations. On January 1, 2013, Abbott completed the separation of AbbVie Inc. (AbbVie), which was formed to hold Abbott's research-based proprietary pharmaceuticals business. Abbott has received a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service that the separation qualifies as a tax-free distribution to Abbott and its U.S. shareholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes. For a small portion of AbbVie's operations, the legal transfer of AbbVie's assets (net of liabilities) did not occur with the separation of AbbVie on January 1, 2013 due to the time required to transfer marketing authorizations and other regulatory requirements in each of these countries. Under the terms of the separation agreement with Abbott, AbbVie is subject to the risks and entitled to the benefits generated by these operations and assets. The majority of these operations were transferred to AbbVie in 2013 and 2014. These assets and liabilities have been presented as held for disposition in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. At December 31, 2015, the assets and liabilities held for disposition consist of cash and trade accounts receivable of $54 million, inventories of $43 million, other assets of $10 million, and trade accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $373 million. Abbott has recorded a prepaid asset of $266 million for its obligation to transfer these net liabilities held for disposition to AbbVie. Abbott has retained all liabilities for all U.S. federal and foreign income taxes on income prior to the separation, as well as certain non-income taxes attributable to AbbVie's business. AbbVie generally will be liable for all other taxes attributable to its business. In 2015, 2014 and 2013, discontinued operations include a favorable adjustment to tax expense of $4 million, $166 million and $193 million, respectively, as a result of the resolution of various tax positions pertaining to AbbVie's operations. 37 The operating results of Abbott's developed markets branded generics pharmaceuticals and animal health businesses as well as the income tax expense related to the businesses transferred to AbbVie, which are being reported as discontinued operations are as follows: Year Ended December 31 (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 Net Sales Developed markets generics pharmaceuticals and animal health businesses $ 256 $ 2,076 $ 2,191 AbbVie Total $ 256 $ 2,076 $ 2,191 Earnings Before Tax Developed markets generics pharmaceuticals and animal health businesses $ 13 $ 505 $ 480 AbbVie Total $ 13 $ 505 $ 480 Net Earnings Developed markets generics pharmaceuticals and animal health businesses $ 62 $ 397 $ 395 AbbVie 3 166 193 Total $ 65 $ 563 $ 588 Research and Development Programs Abbott currently has numerous pharmaceutical, medical devices, diagnostic and nutritional products in development. Research and Development Process In the Established Pharmaceuticals segment, the development process focuses on the geographic expansion and continuous improvement of the segment's existing products to provide benefits to patients and customers. As Established Pharmaceuticals does not actively pursue primary research, development usually begins with work on existing products or after the acquisition of an advanced stage licensing opportunity. Depending upon the product, the phases of development may include: Drug product development. Phase I bioequivalence studies to compare a future Established Pharmaceutical's brand with an already marketed compound with the same active pharmaceutical ingredient (API). Phase II studies to test the efficacy of benefits in a small group of patients. Phase III studies to broaden the testing to a wider population that reflects the actual medical use. Phase IV and other post-marketing studies to obtain new clinical use data on existing products within approved indications. The specific requirements (e.g. scope of clinical trials) for obtaining regulatory approval vary across different countries and geographic regions. The process may range from one year for a bioequivalence study project to 6 or more years for complex formulations, new indications, or geographic expansion in specific countries, such as China. 38 In the Diagnostics segment, the phases of the research and development process include: Discovery which focuses on identification of a product that will address a specific therapeutic area, platform, or unmet clinical need. Concept/Feasibility during which the materials and manufacturing processes are evaluated, testing may include product characterization and analysis is performed to confirm clinical utility. Development during which extensive testing is performed to demonstrate that the product meets specified design requirements and that the design specifications conform to user needs and intended uses. The regulatory requirements for diagnostic products vary across different countries and geographic regions. In the U.S., the FDA classifies diagnostic products into classes (I, II, or III) and the classification determines the regulatory process for approval. While the Diagnostics segment has products in all three classes, the vast majority of its products are categorized as Class I or Class II. Submission of a separate regulatory filing is not required for Class I products. Class II devices typically require pre-market notification to the FDA through a regulatory filing known as a 510(k) submission. Most Class III products are subject to the FDA's Pre-Marketing Approval (PMA) requirements. Other Class III products, such as those used to screen blood, require the submission and approval of a Biological License Application (BLA). In the EU, diagnostic products are also categorized into different categories and the regulatory process, which is governed by the European InVitro Diagnostic Medical Device Directive, depends upon the category. Certain product categories require review and approval by an independent company, known as a Notified Body, before the manufacturer can affix a CE mark to the product to show compliance with the Directive. Other products only require a self-certification process. In the Vascular segment, the research and development process begins with research on a specific technology that is evaluated for feasibility and commercial viability. If the research program passes that hurdle, it moves forward into development. The development process includes evaluation and selection of a product design, completion of clinical trials to test the product's safety and efficacy, and validation of the manufacturing process to demonstrate its repeatability and ability to consistently meet pre-determined specifications. Similar to the diagnostic products discussed above, in the U.S., vascular products are classified as Class I, II, or III. Most of Abbott's vascular products are classified as Class II devices that follow the 510(k) regulatory process or Class III devices that are subject to the PMA process. In the EU, vascular products are also categorized into different classes and the regulatory process, which is governed by the European Medical Device Directive, varies by class. Each product must bear a CE mark to show compliance with the Directive. Some products require submission of a design dossier to the appropriate regulatory authority for review and approval prior to CE marking of the device. For other products, the company is required to prepare a technical file which includes testing results and clinical evaluations but can self-certify its ability to apply the CE mark to the product. Outside the U.S. and the EU, the regulatory requirements vary across different countries and regions. After approval and commercial launch of some vascular products, post-market trials may be conducted either due to a conditional requirement of the regulatory market approval or with the objective of proving product superiority. In the Nutritional segment, the research and development process generally focuses on identifying and developing ingredients and products that address the nutritional needs of particular populations (e.g., infants, athletes) or patients (e.g., people with diabetes). Depending upon the country and/or region, if claims regarding a product's efficacy will be made, clinical studies typically must be conducted. 39 In the U.S., the FDA requires that it be notified of proposed new formulations and formulation or packaging changes related to infant formula products. Prior to the launch of an infant formula or product packaging change, the company is required to obtain the FDA's confirmation that it has no objections to the proposed product or packaging. For other nutrition products, notification or pre-approval from the FDA is not required unless the product includes a new food additive. In some countries, regulatory approval may be required for certain nutritional products, including infant formula and medical nutritional products. Areas of Focus In 2016 and beyond, Abbott's significant areas of therapeutic focus will include the following: Established Pharmaceuticals Abbott focuses on building country specific portfolios made up of global and local pharmaceutical brands that best meet the needs of patients in each country. More than 300 branded generic development projects are active for one or several emerging markets. Over the next several years, Established Pharmaceuticals plans to expand its product portfolio in its key markets through the development and launch of new branded generics with the aim to be among the first to market with a new branded generic for a particular pharmaceutical product, further geographic expansion of existing brands, new product enhancements, and strategic licensing activities. Abbott is also actively working on the further development of several key brands such as Creon, Duphaston and Influvac. Depending on the product, the development activities focus on new data, markets, formulations, combinations or indications. Vascular Ongoing projects in the pipeline include: Absorb , the world's first drug eluting bioresorbable vascular scaffold (BVS) device for the treatment of coronary artery disease that is gradually resorbed into the vessel wall. Absorb GT1 received CE approval and was launched in the second quarter of 2015. Abbott filed for regulatory approval in the U.S. and Japan in the second quarter of 2015. In 2015, Abbott also released clinical results which demonstrated similarity to the Xience metallic drug-eluting stent (DES) at one year through randomized non-inferiority studies. Abbott is also actively working on the development of future generations of BVS technologies. MitraClip device for the treatment of mitral regurgitation (MR). MitraClip is available in the U.S., Europe, parts of Asia, the Middle East and Latin America for patients who are at prohibitive risk for mitral valve surgery. Abbott continued clinical development of the MitraClip therapy including the COAPT trial, a prospective, randomized trial in the United States that will evaluate the impact of MitraClip treatment for an expanded indication. In addition, Abbott continues to work on the development of next generation systems for the treatment of MR. Supera self-expanding nitinol stent system which was acquired as part of the acquisition of IDEV Technologies in August 2013. With its proprietary interwoven wire technology, Supera is designed based on biomimetic principles to mimic the body's natural movement. Supera is available in the U.S., Europe, and various countries in Asia, the Middle East and Latin America for the treatment of blockages in blood vessels due to peripheral artery disease, with expanded size matrix approved in the U.S. Abbott is developing Supera 's next generation delivery system. Abbott is also developing future versions of metallic DES, guide wires and balloon delivery catheters. Armada 18 , Abbott's new peripheral Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty balloon catheter for the treatment of challenging cases in the superficial femoral artery and below the knee categories, received CE approval and was launched in the third quarter of 2015. Medical Optics Abbott is developing a number of new products which are designed to enhance surgical efficiency and/or improve visual outcomes for patients undergoing cataract and LASIK surgery. In 2015, Abbott launched the TECNIS Monofocal 1-Piece intraocular lens (IOL) with the TECNIS iTec Preloaded Delivery System in the U.S. The TECNIS iTec Preloaded Delivery System is designed to provide 40 an additional level of safety and surgical efficiency to the outcomes already provided by the TECNIS Monofocal 1-Piece IOL. The TECNIS Multifocal Low Add products were launched in the U.S. and provide surgeons the ability to customize treatment based on the patient's vision needs and lifestyle. The WHITESTAR Signature Pro phacoemulsification system for removal of cataracts was approved and launched in the U.S.; this system includes a first of its kind application designed for iPad mobile digital devices that gives surgeons the opportunity to download and analyze data to improve surgical efficiency. The iDESIGN Advanced WaveScan Studio System was launched in the U.S. and China; this system provides a high-definition scan of the eye that can be used to create a personalized LASIK treatment plan based on the unique "blueprint" of each person's eyes. In 2016, Abbott will continue to develop next generation equipment and consumables, including improvements to the LASIK platform with upgrades to its iDesign system and a new Eximer Laser, as well as upgrades to the Catalys laser cataract surgery system. Abbott will seek approval to launch existing products into new markets to better leverage its product portfolio. Molecular Diagnostics Various new molecular in vitro diagnostic (IVD) products and next generation instrument systems are in various stages of development and commercialization. Abbott's companion diagnostic program includes collaborative efforts with multiple major pharmaceutical companies. Core Laboratory Diagnostics Abbott is working on the development of next-generation blood screening, hematology, and immunochemistry instrument systems, as well as assays in various areas including infectious disease, cardiac care, metabolics, oncology, and automation solutions to increase efficiency in laboratories. Diabetes Care In 2015, Abbott completed its clinical outcome trial, Replace, for its FreeStyle Libre Flash Glucose Monitoring System in people with Type 2 diabetes. The system eliminates the need for routine finger pricks by reading glucose levels through a sensor that can be worn on the back of the upper arm for up to 14 days. The FreeStyle Libre System also requires no finger pricks for calibration. In 2014, Abbott received CE Mark in Europe for the FreeStyle Libre System and in 2015 it also received CE Mark for an indication for children and young people with diabetes ages 4-17 years old. FreeStyle Libre Pro, which is designed to be used by healthcare professionals in a clinic setting, was launched to patients in India and the PMA for FreeStyle Libre Pro was submitted in the U.S. Nutrition Abbott is focusing its research and development spend on platforms that span the pediatric, adult and performance nutrition areas: gastro intestinal health, brain health, mobility and metabolism, and user experience platforms. Numerous new products that build on advances in these platforms are currently under development, including clinical outcome testing, and are expected to be launched over the coming years. Given the diversity of Abbott's business, its intention to remain a broad-based healthcare company and the numerous sources for potential future growth, no individual project is expected to be material to cash flows or results of operations over the next five years. Factors considered included research and development expenses projected to be incurred for the project over the next year relative to Abbott's total research and development expenses as well as qualitative factors, such as marketplace perceptions and impact of a new product on Abbott's overall market position. There were no delays in Abbott's 2015 research and development activities that are expected to have a material impact on operations. While the aggregate cost to complete the numerous projects currently in development is expected to be material, the total cost to complete will depend upon Abbott's ability to successfully complete each project, the rate at which each project advances, and the ultimate timing for completion. Given the potential for significant delays and the high rate of failure inherent in the development of pharmaceutical, medical device and diagnostic products and technologies, it is not possible to accurately estimate the total cost to complete all projects currently in development. Abbott plans to manage its portfolio of projects to achieve research and development spending equal to approximately 6 percent to 7 percent of sales each 41 year. Abbott does not regularly accumulate or make management decisions based on the total expenses incurred for a particular development phase in a given period. Goodwill At December 31, 2015, goodwill recorded as a result of business combinations totaled $9.6 billion. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually in the third quarter or when an event that could result in an impairment occurs, using a quantitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of any reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. The income and market approaches are used to calculate the fair value of each reporting unit. The results of the last impairment test indicated that the fair value of each reporting unit was substantially in excess of its carrying value except for the Medical Optics unit. Goodwill related to the Medical Optics unit totals approximately $2 billion. While the fair value of the Medical Optics unit exceeds its carrying value by approximately 15%, various factors could develop and result in a valuation in the future where the fair value of the Medical Optics unit has declined below its carrying value, thereby triggering the requirement to estimate the implied fair value of the goodwill and measure for impairment. These factors include a lower than projected growth rate for the business, longer regulatory approval timelines for products currently under development, and the negative impact of foreign currency movements as well as an increase in the discount rate used in the quantitative assessment. Financial Condition Cash Flow Net cash from operating activities amounted to $3.0 billion, $3.7 billion and $3.3 billion in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The decrease in Net cash from operating activities in 2015 was due in large part to the divestiture of the developed market established pharmaceuticals business in February 2015 as well as an increase in contributions to defined benefit plans in 2015. The increase in Net cash from operating activities in 2014 was due to an improvement in operating results, as well as lower cash contributions to pension plans. Net cash from operating activities in 2013 reflects approximately $435 million of one-time net cash outflows related to the separation of AbbVie and $724 million of contributions to defined benefit pension plans. The income tax component of operating cash flow in 2015, 2014 and 2013 includes $70 million, $268 million and $427 million, respectively, of non-cash tax benefits primarily related to the favorable resolution of various tax positions pertaining to prior years; 2015 reflects the non-cash impact of approximately $1.1 billion of tax expense associated with the gain on sale of businesses and 2013 also includes a $103 million tax benefit for the retroactive impact of U.S. tax law changes, which is expected to be realized in future years. While over 85% of the cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2015 is considered reinvested indefinitely in foreign subsidiaries, Abbott does not expect such reinvestment to affect its liquidity and capital resources. If these funds were needed for operations in the U.S., Abbott may be required to accrue and pay U.S. income taxes to repatriate these funds. Abbott believes that it has sufficient sources of liquidity to support its assumption that the disclosed amount of undistributed earnings at December 31, 2015 can be considered to be reinvested indefinitely. Abbott funded $579 million in 2015, $393 million in 2014 and $724 million in 2013 to defined benefit pension plans. Abbott expects pension funding of approximately $576 million in 2016 for its pension plans, of which approximately $470 million relates to its main domestic pension plans. Abbott expects annual cash flow from operating activities to continue to exceed Abbott's capital expenditures and cash dividends. Debt and Capital At December 31, 2015, Abbott's long-term debt rating was A+ by Standard & Poor's Corporation and A2 by Moody's Investors Service. As a result of the pending acquisition of Alere, Abbott's credit ratings 42 are under review and it is anticipated that the ratings will be adjusted to reflect the increased borrowings that will be incurred to finance the acquisition. Abbott has readily available financial resources, including unused lines of credit of $5.0 billion that support commercial paper borrowing arrangements which expire in 2019. In March 2015, Abbott issued $2.5 billion of long-term debt that matures in 2020, 2022 and 2025 with fixed interest rates of 2.0 percent, 2.55 percent, and 2.95 percent, respectively. Proceeds from this debt were used to pay down short-term borrowings. Abbott also entered into interest rate swap contracts totaling $2.5 billion. These contracts have the effect of changing Abbott's obligation from a fixed interest rate to a variable interest rate obligation. In 2014, Abbott redeemed approximately $500 million of long-term notes that were assumed as part of the acquisition of CFR Pharmaceuticals. In September 2014, the board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $3.0 billion of Abbott's common shares from time to time. The 2014 authorization was in addition to the $512 million unused portion of a previous program announced in June 2013. In 2015, Abbott repurchased 11.3 million shares at a cost of $512 million under the unused portion of the 2013 authorization and 36.2 million shares at a cost of $1.7 billion under the program authorized in 2014 for a total of 47.5 million shares at a cost of $2.2 billion. In 2014, Abbott repurchased 54.6 million shares at a cost of $2.1 billion under the program announced in June 2013. In 2013, Abbott repurchased 10.5 million shares at a cost of $388 million under the 2013 authorization and 33.0 million shares at a cost of $1.2 billion under a previous authorization for a total of 43.5 million shares at a cost of $1.6 billion. Abbott declared dividends of $0.98 per share in 2015 compared to $0.90 per share in 2014, a 9% increase. Dividends paid were $1.443 billion in 2015 compared to $1.342 billion in 2014. The year-over-year change in dividends reflects the impact of the increase in the dividend rate. Working Capital The increase of cash and cash equivalents from $4.1 billion at December 31, 2014 to $5.0 billion at December 31, 2015 reflects the cash generated by operating activities as well as the proceeds from the sale of investment securities. Working capital was $5.0 billion at December 31, 2015 and $3.1 billion at December 31, 2014. The increase in working capital in 2015 was due to an increase in cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments and a decrease in short-term borrowings primarily due to the proceeds received related to the recent divestiture of businesses and the issuance of long-term debt. Substantially all of Abbott's trade receivables in Italy, Spain, Portugal, and Greece are with governmental health systems. The collection of outstanding receivables in these countries improved in 2014 and has been stable in 2015. Governmental receivables in these four countries accounted for less than 1 percent of Abbott's total assets and 7 percent of total net trade receivables as of December 31, 2015, down from 9 percent as of December 31, 2014. With the exception of Greece, Abbott historically has collected almost all of the outstanding receivables in these countries. Abbott continues to monitor the credit worthiness of customers located in these and other geographic areas and establishes an allowance against a trade receivable when it is probable that the balance will not be collected. In addition to closely monitoring economic conditions and budgetary and other fiscal developments in these countries, Abbott regularly communicates with its customers regarding the status of receivable balances, including their payment plans and obtains positive confirmation of the validity of the receivables. Abbott also monitors the potential for and periodically has utilized factoring arrangements to mitigate credit risk although the receivables included in such arrangements have historically not been a material amount of total outstanding receivables. If government funding were to become unavailable in these countries or if significant adverse changes in their reimbursement practices were to occur, Abbott may not be able to collect the entire balance. 43 Venezuela Operations Since January 2010, Venezuela has been designated as a highly inflationary economy under U.S. GAAP. In 2014 and 2015, the government of Venezuela operated multiple mechanisms to exchange bolivars into U.S. dollars. These mechanisms included the CENCOEX, SICAD, and SIMADI rates, which stood at 6.3, 13.5, and approximately 200, respectively, at December 31, 2015. In 2015, Abbott continued to use the CENCOEX rate of 6.3 Venezuelan bolivars to the U.S. dollar to report the results, financial position, and cash flows related to its operations in Venezuela since Abbott continued to qualify for this exchange rate to pay for the import of various products into Venezuela. Revenue from operations in Venezuela represented approximately 2% of Abbott's total net sales and pre-tax income totaled approximately $200 million in 2015 and $175 million in 2014. Abbott's sales in Venezuela primarily relate to the Nutritional and Established Pharmaceuticals segments. The economic uncertainty associated with Venezuela increased in 2015 due to the continued hyper-inflation and political uncertainty in the country and lower oil prices, among other factors. Abbott had net monetary assets that are subject to revaluation in Venezuela of approximately $440 million at December 31, 2015. Such assets are comprised primarily of cash. On February 17, 2016, the Venezuelan government announced that the three-tier exchange rate system will be reduced to two rates and the official rate for food and medicine imports will be adjusted from 6.3 to 10 bolivars per U.S. dollar. As a result of the new 10 bolivars per U.S. dollar exchange rate, Abbott's net monetary assets in Venezuela will be subject to revaluation during the quarter ending March 31, 2016, which will result in recognition of a foreign currency exchange loss in that period. Based on Abbott's net monetary assets subject to revaluation at December 31, 2015, remeasuring these assets at a rate of 10 bolivars per U.S. dollar would result in a foreign currency loss of approximately $165 million. Abbott cannot be certain that the Venezuelan government will not make further revisions to the official exchange rate in the future which could result in additional foreign currency losses. While Abbott intends to continue to sell medically critical products in this country, Abbott cannot predict the impact of continued hyper-inflation, low oil prices, and the new exchange rate system on the Venezuelan economy or on the future operating results and financial position of its business in this country. Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures of $1.1 billion in 2015, 2014 and 2013 were principally for upgrading and expanding manufacturing and research and development facilities and equipment in various segments, investments in information technology, and laboratory instruments placed with customers. 44 Contractual Obligations The table below summarizes Abbott's estimated contractual obligations as of December 31, 2015. Payments Due By Period Total 2016 2017-2018 2019-2020 2021 and Thereafter (in millions) Long-term debt, including current maturities $ 5,814 $ 3 $ 3 $ 2,296 $ 3,512 Interest on debt obligations 3,077 239 477 366 1,995 Operating lease obligations 638 163 201 132 142 Capitalized auto lease obligations 45 15 30 Purchase commitments (a) 1,919 1,822 65 32 Other long-term liabilities 1,188 686 354 148 Total (b) $ 12,681 $ 2,242 $ 1,462 $ 3,180 $ 5,797 (a) Purchase commitments are for purchases made in the normal course of business to meet operational and capital expenditure requirements. (b) Net unrecognized tax benefits totaling approximately $600 million are excluded from the table above as Abbott is unable to reasonably estimate the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities on such items. See Note 14 Taxes on Earnings from Continuing Operations for further details. The company has employee benefit obligations consisting of pensions and other postemployment benefits, including medical and life, which have been excluded from the table. A discussion of the company's pension and postretirement plans, including funding matters is included in Note 13 Post-employment Benefits. Contingent Obligations Abbott has periodically entered into agreements with other companies in the ordinary course of business, such as assignment of product rights, which has resulted in Abbott becoming secondarily liable for obligations that Abbott was previously primarily liable. Since Abbott no longer maintains a business relationship with the other parties, Abbott is unable to develop an estimate of the maximum potential amount of future payments, if any, under these obligations. Based upon past experience, the likelihood of payments under these agreements is remote. In addition, Abbott periodically acquires a business or product rights in which Abbott agrees to pay contingent consideration based on attaining certain thresholds or based on the occurrence of certain events. Legislative Issues Abbott's primary markets are highly competitive and subject to substantial government regulations throughout the world. Abbott expects debate to continue over the availability, method of delivery, and payment for health care products and services. It is not possible to predict the extent to which Abbott or the health care industry in general might be adversely affected by these factors in the future. A more complete discussion of these factors is contained in Item 1, Business, and Item 1A, Risk Factors. Recently Issued Accounting Standards In January 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2016-01, Financial Instruments Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, which provides new guidance for the recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial assets and liabilities. The standard becomes effective for Abbott beginning in the first quarter of 2018 and early adoption is permitted. Abbott is currently evaluating the effect, if any, that the standard will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. 45 In November 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-17, Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes , which requires entities to classify all deferred tax assets and liabilities as non-current on the balance sheet. The standard may be adopted on either a prospective or retrospective basis. The standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, and early adoption is permitted. Effective December 31, 2015, Abbott adopted ASU 2015-17 and applied the new standard retrospectively. As a result of applying ASU 2015-17 to the previously reported Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2014, Deferred income taxes within the Total Current Assets line decreased and the Deferred income taxes and other assets line increased by approximately $1.7 billion, respectively; Other accrued liabilities within the Total Current Liabilities line decreased by $65 million and the Post-employment obligations and other long-term liabilities line increased by $12 million. Reclassification of the deferred tax balances from current to noncurrent affected the netting of these balances as a deferred tax asset or liability in various jurisdictions. In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-03, Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs . This ASU, which is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2015, requires debt issuance costs to be presented in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the related debt liability rather than as an asset. Early adoption is permitted and retrospective application is required. Effective December 31, 2015, Abbott adopted ASU 2015-03 and the Consolidated Balance Sheet was retrospectively adjusted to reflect the new presentation. The adoption of ASU 2015-03 did not have a material impact to Abbott's consolidated financial statements. In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers , which provides a single comprehensive model for accounting for revenue from contracts with customers and will supersede most existing revenue recognition guidance. The standard becomes effective for Abbott in the first quarter of 2018. Abbott is currently evaluating the effect, if any, that the standard will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 A Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements Under the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Abbott cautions investors that any forward-looking statements or projections made by Abbott, including those made in this document, are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. Economic, competitive, governmental, technological and other factors that may affect Abbott's operations are discussed in Item 1A, Risk Factors. 46 
