CIK: 858877
Company Name: CISCO SYSTEMS INC
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2011-09-14
Accession Number: 0001193125-11-247394


Item 7. Table of Contents 37 Net income for the year ended July 30, 2011 included restructuring and other charges of $694 million, net of tax. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (1) 7,037 $ 8,860 $ 9,393 $ 11,083 $ 12,207 $ Deferred revenue 6,408 $ 6,893 $ 10,295 $ 15,284 $ 16,822 $ Debt 53,340 $ 58,734 $ 68,128 $ 81,130 $ 87,095 $ Total assets 22,266 $ 26,235 $ 35,001 $ 39,861 $ 44,585 $ Cash and cash equivalents and investments July 28, 2007 July 26, 2008 July 25, 2009 July 31, 2010 July 30, 2011 10,104 $ 12,089 $ 9,897 $ 10,173 $ 10,079 $ Net cash provided by operating activities 0.12 $ Cash dividends declared per common share 6,265 6,163 5,857 5,848 5,563 Shares used in per-share calculation diluted 6,055 5,986 5,828 5,732 5,529 Shares used in per-share calculation basic 1.17 $ 1.31 $ 1.05 $ 1.33 $ 1.17 $ Net income per share diluted 1.21 $ 1.35 $ 1.05 $ 1.36 $ 1.17 $ Net income per share basic 7,333 $ 8,052 $ 6,134 $ 7,767 $ 6,490 $ (1) Net income 34,922 $ 39,540 $ 36,117 $ 40,040 $ 43,218 $ Net sales July 28, 2007 July 26, 2008 July 25, 2009 July 31, 2010 (1) July 30, 2011 Years Ended Five Years Ended July 30, 2011 (in millions, except per-share amounts) Selected Financial Data Item 6. Table of Contents 36 112.56 $ 94.07 $ 82.64 $ 103.25 $ 116.13 $ 100.00 $ S&P 500 146.24 $ 122.69 $ 107.89 $ 119.48 $ 130.25 $ 100.00 $ S&P Information Technology 88.97 $ 127.60 $ 121.02 $ 124.06 $ 160.23 $ 100.00 $ Cisco Systems, Inc. July 2011 July 2010 July 2009 July 2008 July 2007 July 2006 the S&P Information Technology Index and the S&P 500 Index Comparison of 5-Year Cumulative Total Return Among Cisco Systems, Inc., The following graph shows a five-year comparison of the cumulative total shareholder return on Cisco common stock with the cumulative total returns of the S&P Information Technology Index and the S&P 500 Index. The graph tracks the performance of a $100 investment in the Company common stock and in each of the indexes (with the reinvestment of all dividends) on July 28, 2006. Shareholder returns over the indicated period are based on historical data and should not be considered indicative of future shareholder returns. The information contained in this Stock Performance Graph section shall not be deemed to be soliciting material or filed or incorporated by reference in future filings with the SEC, or subject to the liabilities of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except to the extent that Cisco specifically incorporates it by reference into a document filed under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Stock Performance Graph Table of Contents 35 On September 13, 2001, we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized a stock repurchase program. As of July 30, 2011, our Board of Directors had authorized the repurchase of up to $82 billion of common stock under this program. During fiscal 2011, we repurchased and retired 351 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $19.36 per share for an aggregate purchase price of $6.8 billion. As of July 30, 2011, we had repurchased and retired 3.5 billion shares of our common stock at an average price of $20.64 per share for an aggregate purchase price of $71.8 billion since inception of the stock repurchase program, and the remaining authorized amount for stock repurchases under this program was $10.2 billion with no termination date. (2) Includes approximately 2 million shares repurchased to satisfy tax withholding obligations that arose on the vesting of shares of restricted stock and restricted stock units. (1) 95 15.84 $ 97 Total 10,227 $ 51 15.83 $ 51 June 26, 2011 to July 30, 2011 11,030 $ 28 15.53 $ 30 May 29, 2011 to June 25, 2011 11,464 $ 16 16.43 $ 16 May 1, 2011 to May 28, 2011 (2) Programs Under the Plans or Be Purchased That May Yet Value of Shares Approximate Dollar (2) Plans or Programs Publicly Announced Purchased as Part of Total Number of Shares (1) per Share Average Price Paid (1) Purchased Shares Number of Total Period Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities (in millions, except per-share amounts): (c) Not Applicable. (b) Cisco common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol CSCO. Information regarding the market prices of Cisco common stock as well as quarterly cash dividends declared on Cisco common stock during fiscal 2011 may be found in Supplementary Financial Data on page 130 of this report. No cash dividends were declared on Cisco common stock during fiscal 2010. There were 58,434 registered shareholders as of September 8, 2011. (a) Market for Registrant Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 5. PART II Table of Contents 34 In addition, we are subject to legal proceedings, claims, and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business, including intellectual property litigation. While the outcome of these matters is currently not determinable, we do not expect that the ultimate costs to resolve these matters will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. For additional information regarding intellectual property litigation, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors We may be found to infringe on intellectual property rights of others herein. Beginning in April 2011, purported shareholder derivative lawsuits were filed in both the United States District Court for the Northern District of California and the California Superior Court for the County of Santa Clara against our Board of Directors and several of our officers for allowing management to make allegedly false statements during earnings calls. Our management of the stock repurchase program is also alleged to have breached a fiduciary duty. The complaints include claims for violation of the federal securities laws, breach of fiduciary duty, aiding and abetting breaches of fiduciary duty, waste of corporate assets, unjust enrichment, and violations of the California Corporations Code. The complaint seeks compensatory damages, disgorgement, and other relief. On March 31, 2011, a purported shareholder class action lawsuit was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California against Cisco and certain of its officers and directors. A second lawsuit with substantially similar allegations was filed with the same court on April 12, 2011 against Cisco and certain of its officers and directors. The lawsuits are purportedly brought on behalf of those who purchased Cisco publicly traded securities between May 12, 2010 and February 9, 2011, and between February 3, 2010 and February 9, 2011, respectively. Plaintiffs allege that defendants made false and misleading statements during quarterly earnings calls, purport to assert claims for violations of the federal securities laws, and seek unspecified compensatory damages and other relief. We believe the claims are without merit and intend to defend the actions vigorously. While we believe there is no legal basis for liability, due to the uncertainty surrounding the litigation process, we are unable to reasonably estimate a range of loss, if any, at this time. The asserted claims by Brazilian federal tax authorities are for calendar years 2003 through 2007 and the asserted claims by the tax authorities from the state of Sao Paulo, are for calendar years 2005 through 2007. The total asserted claims by Brazilian state and federal tax authorities aggregated to approximately $522 million for the alleged evasion of import taxes, approximately $860 million for interest, and approximately $2.4 billion for various penalties, all determined using an exchange rate as of July 30, 2011. We have completed a thorough review of the matter and believe the asserted tax claims against us are without merit, and we intend to defend the claims vigorously. While we believe there is no legal basis for our alleged liability, due to the complexities and uncertainty surrounding the judicial process in Brazil and the nature of the claims asserting joint liability with the importer, we are unable to determine the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome against us and are unable to reasonably estimate a range of loss, if any. We do not expect a final judicial determination for several years. Brazilian authorities have investigated our Brazilian subsidiary and certain of our current and former employees, as well as a Brazilian importer of our products, and its affiliates and employees, relating to alleged evasion of import taxes and alleged improper transactions involving the subsidiary and the importer. Brazilian tax authorities have assessed claims against our Brazilian subsidiary based on a theory of joint liability with the Brazilian importer for import taxes and related penalties. In addition to claims asserted during prior fiscal years by Brazilian federal tax authorities, tax authorities from the Brazilian state of Sao Paulo asserted similar claims on the same legal basis during the second quarter of fiscal 2011. Legal Proceedings Item 3. Table of Contents 33 For additional information regarding obligations under operating leases, see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For additional information regarding properties by operating segment, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We believe that our existing facilities, including both owned and leased, are in good condition and suitable for the conduct of our business. Outside the United States our operations are conducted primarily in leased sites, such as our Globalisation Centre East campus in Bangalore, India. Other significant sites are located in Australia, Belgium, China, Germany, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Norway, and the United Kingdom. Our headquarters are located at an owned site in San Jose, California. In addition to this site, we own certain sites in the United States, which include facilities in the surrounding areas of San Jose, California; Boston, Massachusetts; Richardson, Texas; Lawrenceville, Georgia; and Research Triangle Park, North Carolina. We also own land for expansion in some of these locations. In addition, we lease office space in several U.S. locations. Properties Item 2. Not applicable. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 1B. We have senior unsecured notes outstanding in an aggregate principal amount of $16.0 billion that mature at specific dates in 2014, 2016, 2017, 2019, 2020, 2039 and 2040. We have also established a commercial paper program under which we may issue short-term, unsecured commercial paper notes on a private placement basis up to a maximum aggregate amount outstanding at any time of $3 billion, and had commercial paper notes outstanding in an aggregate principal amount of $500 million as of July 30, 2011. The outstanding senior unsecured notes bear fixed-rate interest payable semiannually, except $1.25 billion of the notes which bears interest at a floating rate payable quarterly. The fair value of the long-term debt is subject to market interest rate volatility. The instruments governing the senior unsecured notes contain certain covenants applicable to us and our subsidiaries that may adversely affect our ability to incur certain liens or engage in certain types of sale and leaseback transactions. In addition, we will be required to have available in the United States sufficient cash to repay all of our notes on maturity. There can be no assurance that our incurrence of this debt or any future debt will be a better means of providing liquidity to us than would our use of our existing cash resources, including cash currently held offshore. Further, we cannot be assured that our maintenance of this indebtedness or incurrence of future indebtedness will not adversely affect our operating results or financial condition. In addition, changes by any rating agency to our credit rating can negatively impact the value and liquidity of both our debt and equity securities, as well as the terms upon which we may borrow under our commercial paper program. THERE CAN BE NO ASSURANCE THAT OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION WILL NOT BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY OUR INCURRENCE OF DEBT may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock in the future. Additionally, volatility, lack of positive performance in our stock price or changes to our overall compensation program, including our stock incentive program, may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, virtually all of whom are compensated, in part, based on the performance of our stock price. Table of Contents 32 Historically, our common stock has experienced substantial price volatility, particularly as a result of variations between our actual financial results and the published expectations of analysts and as a result of announcements by our competitors and us. Furthermore, speculation in the press or investment community about our strategic position, financial condition, results of operations, business, security of our products, or significant transactions can cause changes in our stock price. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies, in particular, and that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions and the announcement of proposed and completed acquisitions or other significant transactions, or any difficulties associated with such transactions, by us or our current or potential competitors, OUR STOCK PRICE MAY BE VOLATILE We have several strategic alliances with large and complex organizations and other companies with which we work to offer complementary products and services and have established a joint venture to market services associated with our Cisco Unified Computing System products. These arrangements are generally limited to specific projects, the goal of which is generally to facilitate product compatibility and adoption of industry standards. There can be no assurance we will realize the expected benefits from these strategic alliances or from the joint venture. If successful, these relationships may be mutually beneficial and result in industry growth. However, alliances carry an element of risk because, in most cases, we must compete in some business areas with a company with which we have a strategic alliance and, at the same time, cooperate with that company in other business areas. Also, if these companies fail to perform or if these relationships fail to materialize as expected, we could suffer delays in product development or other operational difficulties. Joint ventures can be difficult to manage, given the potentially different interests of joint venture partners. IF WE DO NOT SUCCESSFULLY MANAGE OUR STRATEGIC ALLIANCES, WE MAY NOT REALIZE THE EXPECTED BENEFITS FROM SUCH ALLIANCES AND WE MAY EXPERIENCE INCREASED COMPETITION OR DELAYS IN PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. These securities are generally classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. Our portfolio includes fixed income securities and equity investments in publicly traded companies, the values of which are subject to market price volatility to the extent unhedged. If such investments suffer market price declines, as we experienced with some of our investments during fiscal 2009, we may recognize in earnings the decline in the fair value of our investments below their cost basis when the decline is judged to be other than temporary. For information regarding the sensitivity of and risks associated with the market value of portfolio investments and interest rates, refer to the section titled Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. Our investments in private companies are subject to risk of loss of investment capital. These investments are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products they have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. We could lose our entire investment in these companies. WE ARE EXPOSED TO FLUCTUATIONS IN THE MARKET VALUES OF OUR PORTFOLIO INVESTMENTS AND IN INTEREST RATES; IMPAIRMENT OF OUR INVESTMENTS COULD HARM OUR EARNINGS with resistance. In addition, the continued threat of terrorism and heightened security and military action in response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause further disruptions to the economies of the United States and other countries and create further uncertainties or otherwise materially harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. Likewise, events such as widespread blackouts could have similar negative impacts. To the extent that such disruptions or uncertainties result in delays or cancellations of customer orders or the manufacture or shipment of our products, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Table of Contents 31 Despite our implementation of network security measures our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Efforts to limit the ability of malicious third parties to disrupt the operations of the Internet or undermine our own security efforts may meet MAN-MADE PROBLEMS SUCH AS COMPUTER VIRUSES OR TERRORISM MAY DISRUPT OUR OPERATIONS AND HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS Our corporate headquarters, including certain of our research and development operations are located in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California, a region known for seismic activity. Additionally, a certain number of our facilities are located near rivers that have experienced flooding in the past. Also certain of our suppliers and logistics centers are located in regions that have or may be affected by recent earthquake and tsunami activity which has and could continue to disrupt the flow of components and delivery of products. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, a hurricane, volcano, or a flood, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS ARE ESPECIALLY SUBJECT TO THE RISKS OF EARTHQUAKES, FLOODS, AND OTHER NATURAL CATASTROPHIC EVENTS Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates; by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; by expiration of or lapses in the R&D tax credit laws; by transfer pricing adjustments, including the effect of acquisitions on our intercompany R&D cost sharing arrangement and legal structure; by tax effects of nondeductible compensation; by tax costs related to intercompany realignments; by changes in accounting principles; or by changes in tax laws and regulations, including possible U.S. changes to the taxation of earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, the deductibility of expenses attributable to foreign income, or the foreign tax credit rules. Significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attribute prescribed in the accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes. The accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, which if settled unfavorably could adversely impact our provision for income taxes or additional paid-in capital. Further, as a result of certain of our ongoing employment and capital investment actions and commitments, our income in certain countries is subject to reduced tax rates and in some cases is wholly exempt from tax. Our failure to meet these commitments could adversely impact our provision for income taxes. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. CHANGES IN OUR PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES OR ADVERSE OUTCOMES RESULTING FROM EXAMINATION OF OUR INCOME TAX RETURNS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS approximately $860 million for interest, and approximately $2.4 billion for various penalties, all determined using an exchange rate as of July 30, 2011. We have completed a thorough review of the matter and believe the asserted tax claims against us are without merit, and we intend to defend the claims vigorously. While we believe there is no legal basis for our alleged liability, due to the complexities and uncertainty surrounding the judicial process in Brazil and the nature of the claims asserting joint liability with the importer, we are unable to determine the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome against us and are unable to reasonably estimate a range of loss, if any. An unfavorable resolution of lawsuits or governmental investigations could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. For additional information regarding certain of the matters in which we are involved, see Item 3, Legal Proceedings, contained in Part I of this report. Table of Contents 30 We are a party to lawsuits in the normal course of our business. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. For example, Brazilian authorities have investigated our Brazilian subsidiary and certain of our current and former employees, as well as a Brazilian importer of our products, and its affiliates and employees, relating to alleged evasion of import taxes and alleged improper transactions involving the subsidiary and the importer. Brazilian tax authorities have assessed claims against our Brazilian subsidiary based on a theory of joint liability with the Brazilian importer for import taxes and related penalties. The asserted claims by Brazilian federal tax authorities are for calendar years 2003 through 2007 and the related asserted claims by the tax authorities from the state of Sao Paulo, are for calendar years 2005 through 2007. The total asserted claims by Brazilian state and federal tax authorities aggregated to approximately $522 million for the alleged evasion of import taxes, ADVERSE RESOLUTION OF LITIGATION OR GOVERNMENTAL INVESTIGATIONS MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS OR FINANCIAL CONDITION Our success has always depended in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, managerial, sales, and marketing personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, especially in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California. Stock incentive plans are designed to reward employees for their long-term contributions and provide incentives for them to remain with us. Volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price or equity incentive awards, or changes to our overall compensation program, including our stock incentive program, resulting from the management of share dilution and share-based compensation expense or otherwise, may also adversely affect our ability to retain key employees. As a result of one or more of these factors, we may increase our hiring in geographic areas outside the United States, which could subject us to additional geopolitical and exchange rate risk. The loss of services of any of our key personnel; the inability to retain and attract qualified personnel in the future; or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineering and sales personnel, could make it difficult to meet key objectives, such as timely and effective product introductions. In addition, companies in our industry whose employees accept positions with competitors frequently claim that competitors have engaged in improper hiring practices. We have received these claims in the past and may receive additional claims to this effect in the future. FAILURE TO RETAIN AND RECRUIT KEY PERSONNEL WOULD HARM OUR ABILITY TO MEET KEY OBJECTIVES Future changes in tariffs by regulatory agencies or application of tariff requirements to currently untariffed services could affect the sales of our products for certain classes of customers. Additionally, in the United States, our products must comply with various requirements and regulations of the Federal Communications Commission and other regulatory authorities. In countries outside of the United States, our products must meet various requirements of local telecommunications and other industry authorities. Changes in tariffs or failure by us to obtain timely approval of products could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Changes in telecommunications requirements, or regulatory requirements in other industries in which we operate, in the United States or other countries could affect the sales of our products. In particular, we believe that there may be future changes in U.S. telecommunications regulations that could slow the expansion of the service providers network infrastructures and materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. CHANGES IN TELECOMMUNICATIONS REGULATION AND TARIFFS COULD HARM OUR PROSPECTS AND FUTURE SALES Internet and Internet commerce could decrease demand for our products and, at the same time, increase the cost of selling our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Table of Contents 29 Currently, few laws or regulations apply directly to access or commerce on the Internet. We could be materially adversely affected by regulation of the Internet and Internet commerce in any country where we operate. Such regulations could include matters such as voice over the Internet or using IP, encryption technology, sales taxes on Internet product sales, and access charges for Internet service providers. The adoption of regulation of the OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND FUTURE PROSPECTS COULD BE MATERIALLY HARMED BY UNCERTAINTIES OF REGULATION OF THE INTERNET Many of our products are designed to include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of these products. There can be no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. The inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights or to obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation regarding these matters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Moreover, the inclusion in our products of software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties on a nonexclusive basis could limit our ability to protect our proprietary rights in our products. WE RELY ON THE AVAILABILITY OF THIRD-PARTY LICENSES Our exposure to risks associated with the use of intellectual property may be increased as a result of acquisitions, as we have a lower level of visibility into the development process with respect to such technology or the care taken to safeguard against infringement risks. Further, in the past, third parties have made infringement and similar claims after we have acquired technology that had not been asserted prior to our acquisition. Third parties, including customers, have in the past and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to exclusive patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to us. These assertions have increased over time as a result of our growth and the general increase in the pace of patent claims assertions, particularly in the United States. Because of the existence of a large number of patents in the networking field, the secrecy of some pending patents, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is not economically practical or even possible to determine in advance whether a product or any of its components infringes or will infringe on the patent rights of others. The asserted claims and/or initiated litigation can include claims against us or our manufacturers, suppliers, or customers, alleging infringement of their proprietary rights with respect to our existing or future products or components of those products. Regardless of the merit of these claims, they can be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel, or require us to develop a non-infringing technology or enter into license agreements. Where claims are made by customers, resistance even to unmeritorious claims could damage customer relationships. There can be no assurance that licenses will be available on acceptable terms and conditions, if at all, or that our indemnification by our suppliers will be adequate to cover our costs if a claim were brought directly against us or our customers. Furthermore, because of the potential for high court awards that are not necessarily predictable, it is not unusual to find even arguably unmeritorious claims settled for significant amounts. If any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us by any third party is successful, if we are required to indemnify a customer with respect to a claim against the customer, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. WE MAY BE FOUND TO INFRINGE ON INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OF OTHERS dependent on any individual patents or group of patents for particular segments of the business for which we compete, if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights to the totality of the features (including aspects of products protected other than by patent rights) in a market, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the substantial expense, time, and effort required to create innovative products that have enabled us to be successful. Table of Contents 28 We generally rely on patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secret laws to establish and maintain proprietary rights in our technology and products. Although we have been issued numerous patents and other patent applications are currently pending, there can be no assurance that any of these patents or other proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented or that our rights will, in fact, provide competitive advantages to us. Furthermore, many key aspects of networking technology are governed by industrywide standards, which are usable by all market entrants. In addition, there can be no assurance that patents will be issued from pending applications or that claims allowed on any patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. The outcome of any actions taken in these foreign countries may be different than if such actions were determined under the laws of the United States. Although we are not OUR PROPRIETARY RIGHTS MAY PROVE DIFFICULT TO ENFORCE Currently, we enter into foreign exchange forward contracts and options to reduce the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain foreign currency receivables, investments, and payables. In addition, we periodically hedge anticipated foreign currency cash flows. Our attempts to hedge against these risks may not be successful, resulting in an adverse impact on our net income. Because a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. Historically, our primary exposures have related to nondollar-denominated sales in Japan, Canada, and Australia and certain nondollar-denominated operating expenses and service cost of sales in Europe, Latin America, and Asia, where we sell primarily in U.S. dollars. Additionally, we have exposures to emerging market currencies, which can have extreme currency volatility. An increase in the value of the dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the United States where we sell in dollars, and a weakened dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials to the extent that we must purchase components in foreign currencies. WE ARE EXPOSED TO FLUCTUATIONS IN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES THAT COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS AND CASH FLOWS In the past, there have been significant bankruptcies among customers both on open credit and with loan or lease financing arrangements, particularly among Internet businesses and service providers, causing us to incur economic or financial losses. There can be no assurance that additional losses will not be incurred. Although these losses have not been material to date, future losses, if incurred, could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. A portion of our sales is derived through our distributors and retail partners. These distributors and retail partners are generally given business terms that allow them to return a portion of inventory, receive credits for changes in selling prices, and participate in various cooperative marketing programs. We maintain estimated accruals and allowances for such business terms. However, distributors tend to have more limited financial resources than other resellers and end-user customers and therefore represent potential sources of increased credit risk, because they may be more likely to lack the reserve resources to meet payment obligations. Additionally, to the degree that turmoil in the credit markets makes it more difficult for some customers to obtain financing, those customers ability to pay could be adversely impacted, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our exposure to the credit risks relating to our financing activities described above may increase if our customers are adversely affected by a global economic downturn or periods of economic uncertainty. Although we have programs in place that are designed to monitor and mitigate the associated risk, including monitoring of particular risks in certain geographic areas, there can be no assurance that such programs will be effective in reducing our credit risks. Table of Contents 27 Most of our sales are on an open credit basis, with typical payment terms of 30 days in the United States and, because of local customs or conditions, longer in some markets outside the United States. We monitor individual customer payment capability in granting such open credit arrangements, seek to limit such open credit to amounts we believe the customers can pay, and maintain reserves we believe are adequate to cover exposure for doubtful accounts. Beyond our open credit arrangements, we have also experienced demands for customer financing and facilitation of leasing arrangements. We expect demand for customer financing to continue, and recently we have been experiencing an increase in this demand as the credit markets have been impacted by the recent global economic downturn and related market uncertainty, including increased demand from customers in certain emerging countries. We believe customer financing is a competitive factor in obtaining business, particularly in serving customers involved in significant infrastructure projects. Our loan financing arrangements may include not only financing the acquisition of our products and services but also providing additional funds for other costs associated with network installation and integration of our products and services. WE ARE EXPOSED TO THE CREDIT RISK OF SOME OF OUR CUSTOMERS AND TO CREDIT EXPOSURES IN WEAKENED MARKETS, WHICH COULD RESULT IN MATERIAL LOSSES Adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by subsidiaries Difficulties in staffing and managing international operations Health or similar issues, such as a pandemic or epidemic Political considerations that affect service provider and government spending patterns Economic instability or weakness or natural disasters in a specific country or region; environmental and trade protection measures and other legal and regulatory requirements, some of which may affect our ability to import our products, to export our products from, or sell our products in various countries Political or social unrest Foreign currency exchange rates The worldwide impact of the recent global economic downturn and related market uncertainty, including the recent European economic and financial turmoil related to sovereign debt issues in certain countries We conduct significant sales and customer support operations in countries outside of the United States and also depend on non-U.S. operations of our contract manufacturers, component suppliers and distribution partners. Although sales in several of our emerging countries decreased during the recent global economic downturn, several of our emerging countries generally have been relatively fast growing, and we have announced plans to expand our commitments and expectations in certain of those countries. As such, our growth depends in part on our increasing sales into emerging countries. Our future results could be materially adversely affected by a variety of political, economic or other factors relating to our operations outside the United States, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, including, among others, the following: DUE TO THE GLOBAL NATURE OF OUR OPERATIONS, POLITICAL OR ECONOMIC CHANGES OR OTHER FACTORS IN A SPECIFIC COUNTRY OR REGION COULD HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION shipped. Although the cost of such remediation has not been material in the past, there can be no assurance that such a remediation, depending on the product involved, would not have a material impact. An inability to cure a product defect could result in the failure of a product line, temporary or permanent withdrawal from a product or market, damage to our reputation, inventory costs, or product reengineering expenses, any of which could have a material impact on our revenue, margins, and net income. Table of Contents 26 We produce highly complex products that incorporate leading-edge technology, including both hardware and software. Software typically contains bugs that can unexpectedly interfere with expected operations. There can be no assurance that our preshipment testing programs will be adequate to detect all defects, either ones in individual products or ones that could affect numerous shipments, which might interfere with customer satisfaction, reduce sales opportunities, or affect gross margins. In the past, we have had to replace certain components and provide remediation in response to the discovery of defects or bugs in products that we had PRODUCT QUALITY PROBLEMS COULD LEAD TO REDUCED REVENUE, GROSS MARGINS, AND NET INCOME There has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets for several years. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. For example, some of our current and potential competitors for enterprise data center business have made acquisitions, or announced new strategic alliances, designed to position them with the ability to provide end-to-end technology solutions for the enterprise data center. Companies that are strategic alliance partners in some areas of our business may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us. We believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers. This could lead to more variability in our operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Furthermore, particularly in the service provider market, rapid consolidation will lead to fewer customers, with the effect that loss of a major customer could have a material impact on results not anticipated in a customer marketplace composed of more numerous participants. INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION MAY LEAD TO INCREASED COMPETITION AND MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS Further, provision of greater levels of services, support and financing by us may result in a delay in the timing of revenue recognition. In addition, entry into other markets, such as our entry into the consumer market, has subjected and will subject us to additional risks, particularly to those markets, including the effects of general market conditions and reduced consumer confidence. As we focus on new market opportunities for example, storage; wireless; security; transporting data, voice, and video traffic across the same network; and other areas within our New Products category, emerging technologies, and our priorities we will increasingly compete with large telecommunications equipment suppliers as well as startup companies. Several of our competitors may have greater resources, including technical and engineering resources, than we do. Additionally, as customers in these markets complete infrastructure deployments, they may require greater levels of service, support, and financing than we have provided in the past, especially in emerging countries. Demand for these types of service, support, or financing contracts may increase in the future. There can be no assurance that we can provide products, service, support, and financing to effectively compete for these market opportunities. ENTRANCE INTO NEW OR DEVELOPING MARKETS EXPOSES US TO ADDITIONAL COMPETITION AND WILL LIKELY INCREASE DEMANDS ON OUR SERVICE AND SUPPORT OPERATIONS From time to time, we have made acquisitions that resulted in charges in an individual quarter. These charges may occur in any particular quarter, resulting in variability in our quarterly earnings. In addition, our effective tax rate for future periods is uncertain and could be impacted by mergers and acquisitions. Risks related to new product development also apply to acquisitions. Please see the risk factors above, including the risk factor entitled We depend upon the development of new products and enhancements to existing products, and if we fail to predict and respond to emerging technological trends and customers changing needs, our operating results and market share may suffer for additional information. Table of Contents 25 Mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky and subject to many factors outside of our control, and no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions could materially harm our business and operating results. Prior acquisitions have resulted in a wide range of outcomes, from successful introduction of new products and technologies to a failure to do so. Even when an acquired company has already developed and marketed products, there can be no assurance that product enhancements will be made in a timely fashion or that pre-acquisition due diligence will have identified all possible issues that might arise with respect to such products. Become subject to intellectual property or other litigation Incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses Incur tax expenses related to the effect of acquisitions on our intercompany research and development (R&D) cost sharing arrangement and legal structure Incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets Record goodwill and nonamortizable intangible assets that are subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges Assume liabilities Significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition Use a substantial portion of our cash resources, or incur debt, as we did in fiscal 2006 when we issued and sold $6.5 billion in senior unsecured notes to fund our acquisition of Scientific-Atlanta Issue common stock that would dilute our current shareholders percentage ownership Acquisitions may also cause us to: The potential loss of key employees, customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the companies we acquire following and continuing after announcement of acquisition plans Insufficient revenue to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions Initial dependence on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners Difficulties in entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions Potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development intangibles Diversion of management attention from normal daily operations of the business and the challenges of managing larger and more widespread operations resulting from acquisitions Difficulties in integrating the operations, systems, technologies, products, and personnel of the acquired companies, particularly companies with large and widespread operations and/or complex products, such as Scientific-Atlanta, WebEx and Tandberg Our growth depends upon market growth, our ability to enhance our existing products, and our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis. We intend to continue to address the need to develop new products and enhance existing products through acquisitions of other companies, product lines, technologies, and personnel. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following: WE HAVE MADE AND EXPECT TO CONTINUE TO MAKE ACQUISITIONS THAT COULD DISRUPT OUR OPERATIONS AND HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS Table of Contents 24 Because of the rapid introduction of new products and changing customer requirements related to matters such as cost-effectiveness and security, we believe that there could be performance problems with Internet communications in the future, which could receive a high degree of publicity and visibility. Because we are a large supplier of networking products, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially adversely affected, regardless of whether or not these problems are due to the performance of our own products. Such an event could also result in a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock independent of direct effects on our business. A substantial portion of our business and revenue depends on growth and evolution of the Internet, including the continued development of the Internet, and on the deployment of our products by customers who depend on such continued growth and evolution. To the extent that an economic slowdown or economic uncertainty and related reduction in capital spending adversely affect spending on Internet infrastructure we could experience material harm to our business, operating results, and financial condition. OUR BUSINESS SUBSTANTIALLY DEPENDS UPON THE CONTINUED GROWTH OF THE INTERNET AND INTERNET-BASED SYSTEMS While we intend to focus on managing our costs and expenses, over the long term, we also intend to invest in personnel and other resources related to our engineering, sales, service, marketing and manufacturing functions as we focus on our foundational priorities, such as leadership in our core routing, switching and services, including security and mobility solutions; collaboration; data center virtualization and cloud; video; and architectures for business transformation. We are likely to recognize the costs associated with these investments earlier than some of the anticipated benefits, and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect. If we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments, or if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, our operating results may be adversely affected. OVER THE LONG TERM WE INTEND TO INVEST IN ENGINEERING, SALES, SERVICE, MARKETING AND MANUFACTURING ACTIVITIES, AND THESE INVESTMENTS MAY ACHIEVE DELAYED, OR LOWER THAN EXPECTED BENEFITS WHICH COULD HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS In fiscal 2011 we announced and began implementing restructuring activities designed to lower our operating costs and to simplify our operating model and concentrate our focus on selected foundational priorities. We have incurred in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 and will continue to incur in the near term significant restructuring charges as a result of these activities. The changes to our business model may be disruptive, and the revised model that we adopt may not be more efficient or effective than the aspects of our business model that are being revised. Our restructuring activities, including any related charges and the impact of the related headcount reductions, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction costs, charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities, or claims from third parties who were resellers or users of discontinued products. Our estimates with respect to the useful life or ultimate recoverability of our carrying basis of assets, including purchased intangible assets, could change as a result of such assessments and decisions. Although in certain instances, our supply agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed, our loss contingencies may include liabilities for contracts that we cannot cancel with contract manufacturers and suppliers. Further, our estimates relating to the liabilities for excess facilities are affected by changes in real estate market conditions. Additionally, we are required to perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis and between annual tests in certain circumstances, and future goodwill impairment tests may result in a charge to earnings. Table of Contents 23 In response to changes in industry and market conditions, we may be required to strategically realign our resources and consider restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise exiting businesses. Any decision to limit investment in or dispose of or otherwise exit businesses may result in the recording of special charges, such as CHANGES IN INDUSTRY STRUCTURE AND MARKET CONDITIONS COULD LEAD TO CHARGES RELATED TO DISCONTINUANCES OF CERTAIN OF OUR PRODUCTS OR BUSINESSES AND ASSET IMPAIRMENTS The process of developing new technology is complex and uncertain, and if we fail to accurately predict customers changing needs and emerging technological trends our business could be harmed. We must commit significant resources, including the investments we have been making in our priorities to developing new products before knowing whether our investments will result in products the market will accept. In particular, if our model of the evolution of networking to collaborative systems does not emerge as we believe it will, or if the industry does not evolve as we believe it will, or if our strategy for addressing this evolution is not successful, many of our strategic initiatives and investments may be of no or limited value. Furthermore, we may not execute successfully on that vision because of errors in product planning or timing, technical hurdles that we fail to overcome in a timely fashion, or a lack of appropriate resources. This could result in competitors providing those solutions before we do and loss of market share, net sales, and earnings. The success of new products depends on several factors, including proper new product definition, component costs, timely completion and introduction of these products, differentiation of new products from those of our competitors, and market acceptance of these products. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify new product opportunities, develop and bring new products to market in a timely manner, or achieve market acceptance of our products or that products and technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. The products and technologies in our New Products category and those in our Other Products category that we identify as emerging technologies may not prove to have the market success we anticipate, and we may not successfully identify and invest in other emerging or new products. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, new product introductions, and evolving methods of building and operating networks. Our operating results depend on our ability to develop and introduce new products into existing and emerging markets and to reduce the production costs of existing products. We believe the industry is evolving to enable personal and business process collaboration enabled by networked technologies. As such, many of our strategic initiatives and investments are aimed at meeting the requirements that a network capable of multiple-party, collaborative interaction would demand, and the investments we have made and our architectural approach are designed to enable the increased use of the network as the platform for all forms of communications and IT. In fiscal 2009 we launched our Cisco Unified Computing System, our next-generation enterprise data center platform architected to unite computing, network, storage access, and virtualization resources in a single system, which is designed to address the fundamental transformation occurring in the enterprise data center. Cisco Unified Computing System is one of several priorities on which we are focusing resources. WE DEPEND UPON THE DEVELOPMENT OF NEW PRODUCTS AND ENHANCEMENTS TO EXISTING PRODUCTS, AND IF WE FAIL TO PREDICT AND RESPOND TO EMERGING TECHNOLOGICAL TRENDS AND CUSTOMERS CHANGING NEEDS, OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND MARKET SHARE MAY SUFFER Our key manufacturing facilities for Scientific-Atlanta products are located in Juarez, Mexico, and we may be materially and adversely affected by any prolonged disruption in the operation of these facilities. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, we entered into an agreement to sell these manufacturing operations to one of our contract manufacturers. gross margins. For additional information regarding our purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers, see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this report. Table of Contents 22 Manufacturing capacity and component supply constraints could continue to be significant issues for us. We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, in order to improve manufacturing lead-time performance and to help ensure adequate component supply, we enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers that either allow them to procure inventory based upon criteria as defined by us or that establish the parameters defining our requirements. In certain instances, these agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed. When facing component supply-related challenges, we have increased our efforts in procuring components in order to meet customer expectations which in turn contribute to an increase in purchase commitments. For example, the earthquake in Japan during the third quarter of fiscal 2011 resulted in industry wide component supply constraints, and approximately $300 million of our purchase commitment increase was attributable to us securing supply components as we made commitments to secure our near term supply needs. Increases in our purchase commitments to shorten lead times could also lead to excess and obsolete inventory charges if the demand for our products is less than our expectations. If we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, an oversupply of parts could result in excess or obsolete components that could adversely affect our We face competition for certain components that are supply-constrained, from existing competitors, and companies in other markets As we acquire companies and new technologies, we may be dependent, at least initially, on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners New markets in which we participate may grow quickly, which may make it difficult to quickly obtain significant component capacity We believe that we may be faced with the following challenges in the future: including shortages caused by manufacturing process issues, that have affected our operations. We may in the future experience a shortage of certain component parts as a result of our own manufacturing issues, manufacturing issues at our suppliers or contract manufacturers, capacity problems experienced by our suppliers or contract manufacturers, or strong demand in the industry for those parts. A return to growth in the economy is likely to create greater pressures on us and our suppliers to accurately project overall component demand and component demands within specific product categories and to establish optimal component levels and manufacturing capacity, especially for labor-intensive components, components for which we purchase a substantial portion of the supply, or re-ramping manufacturing capacity for highly complex products. For example, during fiscal 2010, we experienced longer than normal lead times on several of our products and we continue to see challenges at some of our component suppliers. This was attributable in part to increasing demand driven by the improvement in our overall markets, and similar to what is happening in the industry, the longer than normal lead time extensions also stemmed from supplier constraints based upon their labor and other actions taken during the global economic downturn. If shortages or delays persist or worsen, the price of these components may increase, or the components may not be available at all, and we may also encounter shortages if we do not accurately anticipate our needs. We may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new products in a timely manner in the quantities or configurations needed. Accordingly, our revenue and gross margins could suffer until other sources can be developed. Our operating results would also be adversely affected if, anticipating greater demand than actually develops, we commit to the purchase of more components than we need, which is more likely to occur in a period of demand uncertainties such as we are currently experiencing. There can be no assurance that we will not encounter these problems in the future. Although in many cases we use standard parts and components for our products, certain components are presently available only from a single source or limited sources, and a global economic downturn and related market uncertainty could negatively impact the availability of components from one or more of these sources, especially during times such as we have recently seen when there are supplier constraints based on labor and other actions taken during economic downturns. We may not be able to diversify sources in a timely manner, which could harm our ability to deliver products to customers and seriously impact present and future sales. Table of Contents 21 Our growth and ability to meet customer demands depend in part on our ability to obtain timely deliveries of parts from our suppliers and contract manufacturers. We have experienced component shortages in the past, A reduction or interruption in supply; a significant increase in the price of one or more components; a failure to adequately authorize procurement of inventory by our contract manufacturers; a failure to appropriately cancel, reschedule, or adjust our requirements based on our business needs; or a decrease in demand for our products could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition and could materially damage customer relationships. Furthermore, as a result of binding price or purchase commitments with suppliers, we may be obligated to purchase components at prices that are higher than those available in the current market. In the event that we become committed to purchase components at prices in excess of the current market price when the components are actually used, our gross margins could decrease. We experienced longer than normal lead times on several of our products in fiscal 2010 and we continue to see challenges at some of our component suppliers. Additionally, the earthquake and tsunami in Japan resulted in industry wide component supply constraints. Although we have generally secured additional supply or taken other mitigation actions, if the conditions resulting from the Japan situation worsen, these conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. See the risk factor above entitled Our revenue for a particular period is difficult to predict, and a shortfall in revenue may harm our operating results. Reservation of manufacturing capacity at our contract manufacturers by other companies, inside or outside of our industry, could either limit supply or increase costs Any financial problems of either contract manufacturers or component suppliers could either limit supply or increase costs The fact that we do not own or operate the bulk of our manufacturing facilities and that we are reliant on our extended supply chain could have an adverse impact on the supply of our products and on our business and operating results: SUPPLY CHAIN ISSUES, INCLUDING FINANCIAL PROBLEMS OF CONTRACT MANUFACTURERS OR COMPONENT SUPPLIERS, OR A SHORTAGE OF ADEQUATE COMPONENT SUPPLY OR MANUFACTURING CAPACITY THAT INCREASED OUR COSTS OR CAUSED A DELAY IN OUR ABILITY TO FULFILL ORDERS, COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATING RESULTS, AND OUR FAILURE TO ESTIMATE CUSTOMER DEMAND PROPERLY MAY RESULT IN EXCESS OR OBSOLETE COMPONENT SUPPLY, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR GROSS MARGINS We must manage our inventory relating to sales to our distributors and retail partners effectively, because inventory held by them could affect our results of operations. Our distributors and retail partners may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high, or delay orders in anticipation of new products. They also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors that are available to them and in response to seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. Revenue to our distributors and retail partners generally is recognized based on a sell-through method using information provided by them, and they are generally given business terms that allow them to return a portion of inventory, receive credits for changes in selling price, and participate in various cooperative marketing programs. Inventory management remains an area of focus as we balance the need to maintain strategic inventory levels to ensure competitive lead times against the risk of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements. We continue to see challenges at some of our component suppliers and, when facing component supply-related challenges, have increased our efforts in procuring components in order to meet customer expectations. If we ultimately determine that we have excess inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory, which in turn could result in lower gross margins. OUR INVENTORY MANAGEMENT RELATING TO OUR SALES TO OUR TWO-TIER DISTRIBUTION CHANNEL IS COMPLEX, AND EXCESS INVENTORY MAY HARM OUR GROSS MARGINS Table of Contents 20 We also face competition from customers to which we license or supply technology and suppliers from which we transfer technology. The inherent nature of networking requires interoperability. As such, we must cooperate and at the same time compete with many companies. Any inability to effectively manage these complicated relationships with customers, suppliers, and strategic alliance partners could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition and accordingly affect our chances of success. Disruptive technology shifts and new business models The ability to provide financing Market presence Conformance to standards The ability to provide value-added features such as security, reliability, and investment protection The ability to reduce production costs The ability to introduce new products, including products with price-performance advantages Price Product performance The ability to provide a broad range of networking and communications products and services The principal competitive factors in the markets in which we presently compete and may compete in the future include: For example, the enterprise data center is undergoing a fundamental transformation arising from the convergence of technologies, including computing, networking, storage, and software, that previously were siloed. Due to several factors, including the availability of highly scalable and general purpose microprocessors, application-specific integrated circuits offering advanced services, standards based protocols, cloud computing and virtualization, the application of these converging technologies is spanning multiple, previously independent, technology segments. Also, some of our current and potential competitors for enterprise data center business have made acquisitions, or announced new strategic alliances, designed to position them to provide end-to-end technology solutions for the enterprise data center. As a result of all of these developments, we face greater competition in the development and sale of enterprise data center technologies, including competition from entities that are among our long-term strategic alliance partners. Companies that are strategic alliance partners in some areas of our business may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us. Some of our competitors compete across many of our product lines, while others are primarily focused in a specific product area. Barriers to entry are relatively low, and new ventures to create products that do or could compete with our products are regularly formed. In addition, some of our competitors may have greater resources, including technical and engineering resources, than we do. As we expand into new markets, we will face competition not only from our existing competitors but also from other competitors, including existing companies with strong technological, marketing, and sales positions in those markets. We also sometimes face competition from resellers and distributors of our products. Companies with whom we have strategic alliances in some areas may be competitors in other areas. of this report. Item 1. Business experienced price-focused competition from competitors in Asia, especially from China, and we anticipate this will continue. For information regarding our competitors, see the section entitled Competition contained in Table of Contents 19 The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid change, converging technologies, and a migration to networking and communications solutions that offer relative advantages. These market factors represent a competitive threat to us. We compete with numerous vendors in each product category. The overall number of our competitors providing niche product solutions may increase. Also, the identity and composition of competitors may change as we increase our activity in markets for our New Products and in our priorities. As we continue to expand globally, we may see new competition in different geographic regions. In particular, we have THE MARKETS IN WHICH WE COMPETE ARE INTENSELY COMPETITIVE, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ACHIEVEMENT OF REVENUE GROWTH In addition, we depend on our channel partners globally to comply with applicable regulatory requirements. To the extent that they fail to do so, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Revenue from indirect sales could suffer if our distributors financial condition or operations weaken Some of our channel partners may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes and challenges in business conditions Some of our channel partners may demand that we absorb a greater share of the risks that their customers may ask them to bear We compete with some of our channel partners, including through our direct sales, which may lead these channel partners to use other suppliers that do not directly sell their own products or otherwise compete with them Some factors could result in disruption of or changes in our distribution model, which could harm our sales and margins, including the following: Historically, we have seen fluctuations in our gross margins based on changes in the balance of our distribution channels. Although variability to date has not been significant, there can be no assurance that changes in the balance of our distribution model in future periods would not have an adverse effect on our gross margins and profitability. A substantial portion of our products and services is sold through our channel partners, and the remainder is sold through direct sales. Our channel partners include systems integrators, service providers, other resellers, distributors, and retail partners. Systems integrators and service providers typically sell directly to end users and often provide system installation, technical support, professional services, and other support services in addition to network equipment sales. Systems integrators also typically integrate our products into an overall solution, and a number of service providers are also systems integrators. Distributors stock inventory and typically sell to systems integrators, service providers, and other resellers. In addition, home networking products are generally sold through distributors and retail partners. We refer to sales through distributors and retail partners as our two-tier system of sales to the end customer. Revenue from distributors and retail partners generally is recognized based on a sell-through method using information provided by them. These distributors and retail partners are generally given business terms that allow them to return a portion of inventory, receive credits for changes in selling prices, and participate in various cooperative marketing programs. If sales through indirect channels increase, this may lead to greater difficulty in forecasting the mix of our products and, to a degree, the timing of orders from our customers. If we fail to manage distribution of our products and services properly, or if our distributors financial condition or operations weaken, our revenue and gross margins could be adversely affected. DISRUPTION OF OR CHANGES IN OUR DISTRIBUTION MODEL COULD HARM OUR SALES AND MARGINS Table of Contents 18 Sales to the service provider market have been characterized by large and sporadic purchases, especially relating to our router sales and sales of certain products in our New Products category, in addition to longer sales cycles. In the past, we have experienced significant weakness in sales to service providers over certain extended periods of time as market conditions have fluctuated. Sales activity in this industry depends upon the stage of completion of expanding network infrastructures; the availability of funding; and the extent to which service providers are affected by regulatory, economic, and business conditions in the country of operations. Weakness in orders from this industry, including as a result of any slowdown in capital expenditures by service providers (which may be more prevalent during a global economic downturn or periods of economic uncertainty), could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. For example, during fiscal 2009, we experienced a slowdown in service provider capital expenditures globally, and in fiscal 2011 we experienced a slowdown in certain segments of this market, including in capital expenditures by some service provider customers and in sales of our traditional cable set-top boxes in our United States and Canada segment. Such slowdowns may continue or recur in future periods. Orders from this industry could decline for many reasons other than the competitiveness of our products and services within their respective markets. For example, in the past, many of our service provider customers have been materially and adversely affected by slowdowns in the general economy, by overcapacity, by changes in the service provider market, by regulatory developments, and by constraints on capital availability, resulting in business failures and substantial reductions in spending and expansion plans. These conditions have materially harmed our business and operating results in the past, and some of these or other conditions in the service provider market could affect our business and operating results in any future period. Finally, service provider customers typically have longer implementation cycles; require a broader range of services, including design services; demand that vendors take on a larger share of risks; often require acceptance provisions, which can lead to a delay in revenue recognition; and expect financing from vendors. All these factors can add further risk to business conducted with service providers. SALES TO THE SERVICE PROVIDER MARKET ARE ESPECIALLY VOLATILE, AND WEAKNESS IN SALES ORDERS FROM THIS INDUSTRY MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION Changes in service gross margin may result from various factors such as changes in the mix between technical support services and advanced services, as well as the timing of technical support service contract initiations and renewals and the addition of personnel and other resources to support higher levels of service business in future periods. How well we execute on our strategy and operating plans Increased warranty costs Changes in distribution channels Increased price competition, including competitors from Asia, especially from China Lower than expected benefits from value engineering Increased cost, loss of cost savings or dilution of savings due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred due to inventory holding periods if parts ordering does not correctly anticipate product demand or if the financial health of either contract manufacturers or suppliers deteriorates The timing of revenue recognition and revenue deferrals Changes in shipment volume Obsolescence charges Excess inventory and inventory holding charges Increases in material, labor or other manufacturing-related costs, which could be significant especially during periods of supply constraints Table of Contents 17 Sales discounts Entry into new markets or growth in lower margin markets, including markets with different pricing and cost structures, through acquisitions or internal development Our ability to reduce production costs Introduction of new products, including products with price-performance advantages Changes in customer, geographic, or product mix, including mix of configurations within each product group Our level of product gross margins declined in fiscal 2011 and may continue to decline and be adversely affected by numerous factors, including: WE EXPECT GROSS MARGIN TO VARY OVER TIME, AND OUR LEVEL OF PRODUCT GROSS MARGIN MAY NOT BE SUSTAINABLE Any of the above factors could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial results. We plan our operating expense levels based primarily on forecasted revenue levels. These expenses and the impact of long-term commitments are relatively fixed in the short term. A shortfall in revenue could lead to operating results being below expectations because we may not be able to quickly reduce these fixed expenses in response to short-term business changes. Inventory management remains an area of focus. We experienced longer than normal lead times on several of our products in fiscal 2010. This was attributable in part to increasing demand driven by the improvement in our overall markets, and similar to what has happened in the industry, the longer than normal lead time extensions also stemmed from supplier constraints based upon their labor and other actions taken during the global economic downturn. We continue to see challenges at some of our component suppliers. Additionally, the earthquake and tsunami in Japan during the third quarter of fiscal 2011 resulted in industry wide component supply constraints. Longer manufacturing lead times in the past have caused some customers to place the same order multiple times within our various sales channels and to cancel the duplicative orders upon receipt of the product, or to place orders with other vendors with shorter manufacturing lead times. Such multiple ordering (along with other factors) or risk of order cancellation may cause difficulty in predicting our sales and, as a result, could impair our ability to manage parts inventory effectively. In addition, our efforts to improve manufacturing lead-time performance may result in corresponding reductions in order backlog. A decline in backlog levels could result in more variability and less predictability in our quarter-to-quarter net sales and operating results. In addition, when facing component supply-related challenges, we have increased our efforts in procuring components in order to meet customer expectations which in turn contribute to an increase in purchase commitments. Increases in our purchase commitments to shorten lead times could also lead to excess and obsolete inventory charges if the demand for our products is less than our expectations. The timing of large orders can also have a significant effect on our business and operating results from quarter to quarter, primarily in the United States and in emerging countries. From time to time, we receive large orders that have a significant effect on our operating results in the period in which the order is recognized as revenue. The timing of such orders is difficult to predict, and the timing of revenue recognition from such orders may affect period to period changes in net sales. As a result, our operating results could vary materially from quarter to quarter based on the receipt of such orders and their ultimate recognition as revenue. overtime expenses may be incurred, as well as in potential additional inventory management-related costs. In addition, to the extent that manufacturing issues and any related component shortages result in delayed shipments in the future, and particularly in periods in which we and our contract manufacturers are operating at higher levels of capacity, it is possible that revenue for a quarter could be adversely affected if such matters occur and are not remediated within the same quarter. Table of Contents 16 As a result of a variety of factors discussed in this report, our revenue for a particular quarter is difficult to predict, especially in light of the recent global economic downturn and related market uncertainty. Our net sales may grow at a slower rate than in past periods or may decline, which occurred in fiscal 2009. Our ability to meet financial expectations could also be adversely affected if the nonlinear sales pattern seen in some of our past quarters recurs in future periods. We have experienced periods of time during which shipments have exceeded net bookings or manufacturing issues have delayed shipments, leading to nonlinearity in shipping patterns. In addition to making it difficult to predict revenue for a particular period, nonlinearity in shipping can increase costs, because irregular shipment patterns result in periods of underutilized capacity and periods in which OUR REVENUE FOR A PARTICULAR PERIOD IS DIFFICULT TO PREDICT, AND A SHORTFALL IN REVENUE MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS We have been realigning and are dedicating resources to focus on certain priorities, such as leadership in our core routing, switching and services, including security and mobility solutions; collaboration; data center virtualization and cloud; video; and architectures for business transformation. However, the return on our investments in such priorities may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect. If we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments (including if our selection of areas for investment does not play out as we expect), or if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, our operating results may be adversely affected. WE HAVE BEEN INVESTING IN PRIORITIES, INCLUDING OUR FOUNDATIONAL PRIORITIES, AND IF THE RETURN ON THESE INVESTMENTS IS LOWER OR DEVELOPS MORE SLOWLY THAN WE EXPECT, OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY BE HARMED Our operating results in one or more segments may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions particularly germane to that segment or to particular customer markets within that segment. For example, during fiscal 2011 we experienced and continue to see a decrease in spending by our public sector customers in almost every developed market around the world. Instability in the global credit markets, including the recent European economic and financial turmoil related to sovereign debt issues in certain countries, the instability in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world and other disruptions, such as changes in energy costs, may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions. The world has recently experienced a global macroeconomic downturn, and if global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in key markets, remain uncertain or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenue and higher interest expense Risk of excess facilities and manufacturing capacity Risk of supply constraints Risk of excess and obsolete inventories Increased price competition for our products, not only from our competitors but also as a consequence of customers disposing of unutilized products Reduced demand for our products as a result of continued constraints on IT-related capital spending by our customers, particularly service providers, and other customer markets as well Challenging economic conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed, and may continue to contribute, to slowdowns in the communications and networking industries at large, as well as in specific segments and markets in which we operate, resulting in: OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY UNFAVORABLE ECONOMIC AND MARKET CONDITIONS AND THE UNCERTAIN GEOPOLITICAL ENVIRONMENT Table of Contents 15 As a consequence, operating results for a particular future period are difficult to predict, and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Any of the foregoing factors, or any other factors discussed elsewhere herein, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition that could adversely affect our stock price. Changes in tax laws or regulations or accounting rules Benefits anticipated from our investments in engineering, sales and manufacturing activities Our ability to achieve targeted cost reductions How well we execute on our strategy and operating plans and the impact of changes in our business model that could result in significant restructuring charges Actual events, circumstances, outcomes, and amounts differing from judgments, assumptions, and estimates used in determining the values of certain assets (including the amounts of related valuation allowances), liabilities, and other items reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements Share-based compensation expense The ability of our customers, channel partners, contract manufacturers and suppliers to obtain financing or to fund capital expenditures, especially during a period of global credit market disruption or in the event of customer, channel partner, contract manufacturer or supplier financial problems Fluctuations in our gross margins, and the factors that contribute to such fluctuations, as described below Manufacturing and customer lead times The timing, size, and mix of orders from customers Variations in sales channels, product costs, or mix of products sold The introduction and market acceptance of new technologies and products and our success in new and evolving markets, including in our New Products category and emerging technologies, as well as the adoption of new standards The overall movement toward industry consolidation among both our competitors and our customers Price and product competition in the communications and networking industries, which can change rapidly due to technological innovation and different business models from various geographic regions Our ability to maintain appropriate inventory levels and purchase commitments Changes in sales and implementation cycles for our products and reduced visibility into our customers spending plans and associated revenue Fluctuations in demand for our products and services, especially with respect to telecommunications service providers and Internet businesses, in part due to changes in the global economic environment Our operating results have been in the past, and will continue to be, subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations as a result of numerous factors, some of which may contribute to more pronounced fluctuations in an uncertain global economic environment. These factors include: OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY FLUCTUATE IN FUTURE PERIODS, WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR STOCK PRICE Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the SEC are descriptions of the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. Risk Factors Item 1A. Table of Contents 14 Mr. Pond joined Cisco in September 1993. In 1994, Mr. Pond assumed leadership of Cisco Supply/Demand group. In 1994, he was appointed Director of Manufacturing Operations. He was promoted to Vice President of Manufacturing in 1995. In January 2000, Mr. Pond was promoted to Senior Vice President of West Coast and Asia operations. He was promoted to Senior Vice President, Worldwide Manufacturing Operations and Logistics in June 2001. In August 2003, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, Operations, Processes and Systems, and he was named Executive Vice President in August 2007. Before joining Cisco, Mr. Pond held the position of Vice President Finance, Chief Financial Officer, and Vice President of Operations at Crescendo Communications. Executive Vice President, Operations, Processes and Systems 57 Randy Pond Mr. Moore joined Cisco in October 2001 as Senior Vice President, Advanced Services. In August 2007, he also assumed responsibility as co-lead of Cisco Services. In May 2010, he was promoted to Executive Vice President, Cisco Services. In February 2011, Mr. Moore was appointed to his current position. Immediately before joining Cisco, Mr. Moore served for approximately two years as chief executive officer of Netigy Corporation, a network consulting company. Prior to that, he was employed by Electronic Data Systems where he held a number of executive positions. Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer 62 Gary B. Moore Mr. Lloyd joined Cisco in November 1994 as General Manager of Cisco Canada. In October 1998, he was promoted to Vice President, EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa); in February 2001, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, EMEA; and in July 2005, Mr. Lloyd was appointed Senior Vice President, US, Canada and Japan. In April 2009, he was promoted to his current position. Executive Vice President, Worldwide Operations 55 Robert W. Lloyd Mr. Elfrink joined Cisco in 1997 as Vice President of Customer Advocacy in Europe. In November 2000 he was promoted to Senior Vice President, Customer Advocacy and took over global responsibility for the function. Mr. Elfrink was appointed Chief Globalisation Officer in December 2006 and moved to Bangalore, India to establish Cisco Globalisation Centre East. In August 2007 he was named Executive Vice President. In February 2011, Mr. Elfrink was appointed to his current position and as of August 2011 he has relocated to San Jose, California. Executive Vice President, Emerging Solutions and Chief Globalisation Officer 59 Wim Elfrink Ms. Christie joined Cisco in August 1999 as part of Cisco Investor Relations team. From April 2000 through December 2003, Ms. Christie held a number of managerial positions within Cisco Investor Relations function. In January 2004, Ms. Christie was promoted to Vice President, Investor Relations.In June 2006, Ms. Christie was appointed to Vice President, Global Corporate Communications. In January 2008, Ms. Christie was promoted to Senior Vice President, Global Corporate Communications. In January 2011, Ms. Christie was appointed to her current position. Senior Vice President, Chief Marketing and Communications Officer, Worldwide Government Affairs 39 Blair Christie Position Age Name Table of Contents 13 Mr. Chandler joined Cisco in July 1996, upon Cisco acquisition of StrataCom, Inc., where he served as General Counsel. He served as Cisco Managing Attorney for Europe, the Middle East, and Africa from December 1996 until June 1999; as Director, Worldwide Legal Operations from June 1999 until February 2001; and was promoted to Vice President, Worldwide Legal Services in February 2001. In October 2001, he was promoted to Vice President, Legal Services and General Counsel and in May 2003, he was also appointed Secretary. In February 2006, he was promoted to Senior Vice President. Before joining StrataCom, he had served as Vice President, Corporate Development and General Counsel of Maxtor Corporation. Senior Vice President, Legal Services, General Counsel and Secretary 55 Mark Chandler Mr. Chambers has served as Chief Executive Officer since January 1995, as Chairman of the Board of Directors since November 2006 and as a member of the Board of Directors since November 1993. Mr. Chambers also served as President from January 31, 1995 to November 2006. He joined Cisco as Senior Vice President in January 1991 and was promoted to Executive Vice President in June 1994. Mr. Chambers was promoted to President and Chief Executive Officer as of January 31, 1995. Before joining Cisco, he was employed by Wang Laboratories, Inc. for eight years, where, in his last role, he was the Senior Vice President of U.S. Operations. Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and Director 62 John T. Chambers Mr. Calderoni joined Cisco in May 2004 as Vice President, Worldwide Sales Finance. In June 2007, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, Customer Solutions Finance. He was appointed to his current position effective in February 2008. From March 2002 until he joined Cisco, Mr. Calderoni served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of QLogic Corporation, a supplier of storage networking solutions. Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer of SanDisk Corporation from February 2000 to February 2002. Prior to that, he was employed by IBM Corporation where he held a number of executive positions. Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 54 Frank A. Calderoni Position Age Name The following table shows the name, age and position as of August 31, 2011 of each of our executive officers: Executive Officers of the Registrant We consider the relationships with our employees to be positive. Competition for technical personnel in the industry in which we compete is intense. We believe that our future success depends in part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate, and retain qualified personnel. To date, we believe that we have been successful in recruiting qualified employees, but there is no assurance that we will continue to be successful in the future. approximately 6,447 in general and administration. Approximately 37,300 employees are in locations within the United States. We expect our headcount to decrease in the near term as part of targeted cost-cutting initiatives, which include the workforce reduction announced in July 2011. Additionally, we also expect our headcount in fiscal 2012 to decrease by approximately 5,000 employees upon the completion in fiscal 2012 of the sale of our Juarez, Mexico manufacturing operations. Table of Contents 12 As of July 30, 2011, we employed approximately 71,825 employees, including approximately 18,368 in service and manufacturing, approximately 21,112 in engineering, approximately 25,898 in sales and marketing, and Employees The industry in which we compete is characterized by rapidly changing technology, a large number of patents, and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance that our patents and other proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented; that others will not assert intellectual property rights to technologies that are relevant to us; or, that our rights will give us a competitive advantage. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The risks associated with patents and intellectual property are more fully discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors, including the risk factors entitled Our proprietary rights may prove difficult to enforce, We may be found to infringe on intellectual property rights of others, and We rely on the availability of third-party licenses. Many of our products are designed to include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of our products, we believe, based upon past experience and standard industry practice, that such licenses generally could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. Nonetheless, there can be no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights or to obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation regarding these matters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Moreover, inclusion in our products of software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties on a nonexclusive basis can limit our ability to protect our proprietary rights in our products. We seek to establish and maintain our proprietary rights in our technology and products through the use of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secret laws. We have a program to file applications for and obtain patents, copyrights, and trademarks in the United States and in selected foreign countries where we believe filing for such protection is appropriate. We also seek to maintain our trade secrets and confidential information by nondisclosure policies and through the use of appropriate confidentiality agreements. We have obtained a substantial number of patents and trademarks in the United States and in other countries. There can be no assurance, however, that the rights obtained can be successfully enforced against infringing products in every jurisdiction. Although we believe the protection afforded by our patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets has value, the rapidly changing technology in the networking industry and uncertainties in the legal process make our future success dependent primarily on the innovative skills, technological expertise, and management abilities of our employees rather than on the protection afforded by patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws. Patents, Intellectual Property, and Licensing Although we employ an outsourced manufacturing strategy, as of July 30, 2011 we operated manufacturing facilities in Juarez, Mexico for the manufacture of set-top boxes. We have entered into an agreement to sell these manufacturing operations to a contract manufacturer, consistent with our strategic objective of simplifying our operating model. The transaction is expected to be completed in fiscal 2012. capacity, quality, and cost management; oversight of manufacturing; and conditions for use of our intellectual property. We have not entered into any significant long-term contracts with any manufacturing service provider. We generally have the option to renew arrangements on an as-needed basis, primarily annually. These arrangements generally do not commit us to purchase any particular amount or any quantities beyond certain amounts covered by orders or forecasts that we submit covering discrete periods of time, defined as less than one year. Table of Contents 11 Our arrangements with contract manufacturers generally provide for quality, cost, and delivery requirements, as well as manufacturing process terms, such as continuity of supply; inventory management; flexibility regarding We rely on contract manufacturers for substantially all of our manufacturing needs. We presently use a variety of independent third-party companies to provide services related to printed-circuit board assembly, in-circuit test, product repair, and product assembly. Proprietary software on electronically programmable memory chips is used to configure products that meet customer requirements and to maintain quality control and security. The manufacturing process enables us to configure the hardware and software in unique combinations to meet a wide variety of individual customer requirements. The manufacturing process uses automated testing equipment and burn-in procedures, as well as comprehensive inspection, testing, and statistical process controls, which are designed to help ensure the quality and reliability of our products. The manufacturing processes and procedures are generally certified to International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 9001 or ISO 9003 standards. Manufacturing The industry in which we compete is subject to rapid technological developments, evolving standards, changes in customer requirements, and new product introductions and enhancements. As a result, our success depends in part upon our ability, on a cost-effective and timely basis, to continue to enhance our existing products and to develop and introduce new products that improve performance and reduce total cost of ownership. To achieve these objectives, our management and engineering personnel work with customers to identify and respond to customer needs, as well as with other innovators of internetworking products, including universities, laboratories, and corporations. We also expect to continue to make acquisitions and investments, where appropriate, to provide us with access to new technologies. We intend to continue developing products that meet key industry standards and to support important protocol standards as they emerge, such as IP version 6. Nonetheless, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop products to address new customer requirements and technological changes, or that those products will achieve market acceptance. We regularly seek to introduce new products and features to address the requirements of our markets. We allocate our research and development budget among routers, switches, new products, and other product technologies for this purpose. Our research and development expenditures were $5.8 billion, $5.3 billion, and $5.2 billion in fiscal 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. These expenditures are applied generally to all product areas, with specific areas of focus being identified from time to time. Recent areas of focus are tied to our foundational priorities and include, but are not limited to, our core routing and switching products, Cisco TelePresence systems products, and the Cisco Unified Computing System. Our expenditures for research and development costs were expensed as incurred. Research and Development We also face competition from customers to which we license or supply technology and suppliers from which we transfer technology. The inherent nature of networking requires interoperability. As such, we must cooperate and at the same time compete with many companies. Any inability to effectively manage these complicated relationships with customers, suppliers, and strategic alliance partners could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition, and accordingly affect our chances of success. Disruptive technology shifts and new business models The ability to provide financing Market presence Conformance to standards The ability to provide value-added features such as security, reliability, and investment protection The ability to reduce production costs Table of Contents 10 The ability to introduce new products, including products with price-performance advantages Price Product performance The ability to provide a broad range of networking and communications products and services The principal competitive factors in the markets in which we presently compete and may compete in the future include: Some of these companies compete across many of our product lines, while others are primarily focused in a specific product area. Barriers to entry are relatively low, and new ventures to create products that do or could compete with our products are regularly formed. In addition, some of our competitors may have greater resources, including technical and engineering resources, than we do. As we expand into new markets, we will face competition not only from our existing competitors but also from other competitors, including existing companies with strong technological, marketing, and sales positions in those markets. We also sometimes face competition from resellers and distributors of our products. Companies with whom we have strategic alliances in some areas may be competitors in other areas. For example, the enterprise data center is undergoing a fundamental transformation arising from the convergence of technologies, including computing, networking, storage, and software, that previously were siloed. Due to several factors, including the availability of highly scalable and general purpose microprocessors, application-specific integrated circuits offering advanced services, standards based protocols, cloud computing and virtualization, the convergence of technologies within the enterprise data center is spanning multiple, previously independent, technology segments. Also, some of our current and potential competitors for enterprise data center business have made acquisitions, or announced new strategic alliances, designed to position them to provide end-to-end technology solutions for the enterprise data center. As a result of all of these developments, we face greater competition in the development and sale of enterprise data center technologies, including competition from entities that are among our long-term strategic alliance partners. Companies that are strategic alliance partners in some areas of our business may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us. Our competitors include Alcatel-Lucent; Arista Networks, Inc.; ARRIS Group, Inc.; Aruba Networks, Inc.; Avaya Inc.; Brocade Communications Systems, Inc.; Check Point Software Technologies Ltd.; Citrix Systems, Inc.; Dell Inc.; D-Link Corporation; LM Ericsson Telephone Company; Extreme Networks, Inc.; F5 Networks, Inc.; Fortinet, Inc.; Hewlett-Packard Company; Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.; International Business Machines Corporation; Juniper Networks, Inc.; LogMeIn, Inc.; Meru Networks, Inc.; Microsoft Corporation; Motorola Mobility Holdings, Inc.; Motorola Solutions, Inc.; NETGEAR, Inc.; Polycom, Inc.; Riverbed Technology, Inc.; and Symantec Corporation; among others. We compete in the networking and communications equipment markets, providing products and services for transporting data, voice, and video traffic across intranets, extranets, and the Internet. These markets are characterized by rapid change, converging technologies, and a migration to networking and communications solutions that offer relative advantages. These market factors represent both an opportunity and a competitive threat to us. We compete with numerous vendors in each product category. The overall number of our competitors providing niche product solutions may increase. Also, the identity and composition of competitors may change as we increase our activity in our New Products markets. As we continue to expand globally, we may see new competition in different geographic regions. In particular, we have experienced price-focused competition from competitors in Asia, especially from China, and we anticipate this will continue. Competition discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors, including the risk factor entitled If we do not successfully manage our strategic alliances, we may not realize the expected benefits from such alliances and we may experience increased competition or delays in product development. Table of Contents 9 We pursue strategic alliances with other companies in areas where collaboration can produce industry advancement and acceleration of new markets. The objectives and goals of a strategic alliance can include one or more of the following: technology exchange, product development, joint sales and marketing, or new-market creation. Currently, we have strategic alliances with Accenture Ltd; AT&T Inc.; Cap Gemini S.A.; Citrix Systems, Inc.; EMC Corporation; Fujitsu Limited; Intel Corporation; International Business Machines Corporation; Italtel SpA; Johnson Controls Inc.; Microsoft Corporation; NetApp, Inc.; Nokia Corporation; Nokia Siemens Networks; Oracle Corporation; SAP AG; Sprint Nextel Corporation; Tata Consultancy Services Ltd.; VMware, Inc.; Wipro Limited; Xerox Corporation; and others. Companies with which we have strategic alliances in some areas may be competitors in other areas. The risks associated with our strategic alliances are more fully Strategic Alliances We make investments in privately held companies that develop technology or provide services that are complementary to our products or that provide strategic value. The risks associated with these investments are more fully discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors, including the risk factor entitled We are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio investments and in interest rates; impairment of our investments could harm our earnings. Investments in Privately Held Companies We have acquired many companies, and we expect to make future acquisitions. Mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky, especially if the acquired company has yet to ship a product. No assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful or will not materially adversely affect our financial condition or operating results. Prior acquisitions have resulted in a wide range of outcomes, from successful introduction of new products and technologies to an inability to do so. The risks associated with acquisitions are more fully discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors, including the risk factor entitled We have made and expect to continue to make acquisitions that could disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. Acquisitions Reselling other companies products Entering into joint-development efforts with other companies Acquiring all or parts of other companies Developing new technologies and products internally The markets in which we compete require a wide variety of technologies, products, and capabilities. The combination of technological complexity and rapid change within our markets makes it difficult for a single company to develop all of the technological solutions that it desires to offer within its family of products and services. We work to broaden the range of products and services we deliver to customers in target markets through acquisitions, investments, and alliances. We employ the following strategies to address the need for new or enhanced networking and communications products and services: Acquisitions, Investments, and Alliances Our product backlog at July 30, 2011, the last day of our 2011 fiscal year, was approximately $4.3 billion, compared with product backlog of approximately $4.1 billion at July 31, 2010, the last day of our 2010 fiscal year. The product backlog includes orders confirmed for products scheduled to be shipped within 90 days to customers with approved credit status. Because of the generally short cycle between order and shipment and occasional customer changes in delivery schedules or cancellation of orders (which are made without significant penalty), we do not believe that our product backlog, as of any particular date, is necessarily indicative of actual net product sales for any future period. Product Backlog Table of Contents 8 We provide financing arrangements, such as leases, financed service contracts, and loans, for certain qualified customers to build, maintain, and upgrade their networks. We believe customer financing is a competitive factor in obtaining business, particularly in serving customers involved in significant infrastructure projects. Leases include sales-type, direct financing, and operating leases. We also provide certain qualified customers with the option of financing long-term service contracts, which primarily relate to technical support services and typically range from one to three years. Our loan financing arrangements may include not only financing for the acquisition of our products and services, but also may provide additional funds for other costs associated with network installation and integration of our products and services. For additional information regarding these financing arrangements, see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our service offerings complement our products through a range of consulting, technical, project, quality, and maintenance services, including 24-hour online and telephone support through technical assistance centers. For information regarding risks relating to our international operations, see Item 1A. Risk Factors, including the risk factors entitled Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions and the uncertain geopolitical environment ; Entrance into new or developing markets exposes us to additional competition and will likely increase demands on our service and support operations ; Due to the global nature of our operations, political or economic changes or other factors in a specific country or region could harm our operating results and financial condition ; We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact our financial results and cash flows ; and Man-made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism may disrupt our operations and harm our operating results , among others. For information regarding risks related to our channels, see Item 1A. Risk Factors, including the risk factors entitled Disruption of or changes in our distribution model could harm our sales and margins and Our inventory management relating to our sales to our two-tier distribution channel is complex, and excess inventory may harm our gross margins. Distributors hold inventory and typically sell to systems integrators, service providers, and other resellers. In addition, home networking products are generally sold through distributors and retail partners. We refer to sales through distributors and retail partners as our two-tier system of sales to the end customer. Revenue from distributors and retail partners generally is recognized based on a sell-through method using information provided by them. These distributors and retail partners are generally given business terms that allow them to return a portion of inventory, receive credits for changes in selling prices, and participate in various cooperative marketing programs. Systems integrators and service providers typically sell directly to end users and often provide system installation, technical support, professional services, and other support services in addition to network equipment sales. Systems integrators also typically integrate our products into an overall solution. Some service providers are also systems integrators. As of the end of fiscal 2011, our worldwide sales and marketing department consisted of approximately 25,898 employees, including managers, sales representatives, and technical support personnel. We have field sales offices in approximately 95 countries, and we sell our products and services both directly and through a variety of channels with support from our salesforce. A substantial portion of our products and services is sold through our channel partners, and the remainder is sold through direct sales. Our channel partners include systems integrators, service providers, other resellers, distributors, and retail partners. Sales Overview strategy for serving the consumer market is through its service provider customers, and to a lesser extent through major consumer channels, including through both traditional and online retailers, through our website, and through value added resellers. Table of Contents 7 Our consumer customers are individuals who use the network at home, or while away from home, for personal use to enjoy a broad range of entertainment, communications, and information experiences. Cisco primary Consumer Generally, we define commercial businesses as companies with fewer than 1,000 employees. The larger, or midmarket, customers within the commercial market are served by a combination of our direct salesforce and our channel partners. These customers typically require the latest advanced technologies that our enterprise customers demand, but with less complexity. Small businesses, or companies with fewer than 100 employees, require information technologies and communication products that are easy to configure, install, and maintain. These smaller companies within the commercial market are primarily served by our channel partners. Commercial Service providers offer data, voice, video, and mobile/wireless services to businesses, governments, utilities, and consumers worldwide. They include regional, national, and international wireline carriers, as well as Internet, cable, and wireless providers. We also group media, broadcast, and content-providers within our service provider market, as the lines in the telecommunications industry continue to blur between traditional network-based services and content-based and application-based services. Service providers use a variety of our routing and switching, optical, security, video, connected home, mobility, and network management products, systems and services for their own networks. In addition, many service providers use Cisco data center, virtualization, and collaboration technologies to offer managed or Internet-based services to their business customers. These technologies include Cisco Unified Communications and call center products and applications, Cisco WebEx collaboration tools, and Cisco TelePresence systems products, as well as other video and security products and systems that can be incorporated into network-attached data centers. Compared with other customers, service providers are more likely to require network design, deployment, and support services because of the scale and complexity of their networks, which requirements are addressed, we believe, by our architectural approach. Service Providers Enterprise businesses are large regional, national, or global organizations with multiple locations or branch offices and typically employ 1,000 or more employees. Many enterprise businesses have unique IT, collaboration, and networking needs within a multi-vendor environment. Our enterprise customers also include public sector entities and governments. We strive to take advantage of the network-as-a-platform strategy to integrate business processes with technology architectures to assist customer growth. We offer service and support packages, financing, and managed network services through our service provider partners. We sell these products through a network of third-party application and technology vendors and channel partners. Enterprise Many factors influence the IT, collaboration, and networking requirements of our customers. These include the size of the organization, number and types of technology systems, geographic location, and the business applications deployed throughout the customer network. Our customer base is not limited to any specific industry, geography, or market segment. In each of the past three fiscal years, no single customer has accounted for 10 percent or more of our net sales. Our customers primarily operate in the following markets: enterprise, service provider, commercial, and consumer. Customers and Markets and consultative support of our technologies for specific networking needs. The advanced services program supports networking devices, applications, solutions, and complete infrastructures. Our service and support strategy seeks to capitalize on increased globalization, and we believe this strategy, along with our architectural approach, has the potential to further differentiate us from competitors. Table of Contents 6 In addition to our product offerings, we provide a broad range of service offerings, including technical support services and advanced services. Technical support services help ensure that our products operate efficiently, remain available, and benefit from the most up-to-date system software. These services help customers protect their network investments and minimize downtime for systems running mission-critical applications. Advanced services are services that are part of a comprehensive program that is designed to provide responsive, preventive, Service Our Other Products category primarily consists of optical networking products, emerging technologies such as physical security and video surveillance, and digital media systems. Other Products We provide storage area networking (SAN) products for data center environments designed to deliver multilayer, scalable, and highly secure connectivity between servers and storage systems, including products such as storage arrays and tape drives. These products incorporate intelligent network features, such as advanced network security, traffic management, server virtualization, SAN consolidation and pay-as-you-grow flexibility to permit users to scale from an entry-level departmental switch to edge connectivity in enterprise SANs, and also incorporate tools that are designed to help make storing, retrieving, and protecting critical data across widely distributed environments more efficient. The Cisco MDS 9000 Series of configurable Fiber Channel fabric switches is currently the key product line within our storage area networking product category. Cisco Application Networking Services consist of a broad portfolio of application networking solutions designed to enable secure, high performance, reliable delivery of applications within data centers and across WANs to remote and branch office users. Our solutions are designed to help facilitate the deployment and delivery of business applications across an entire organization by using technology to accelerate, maximize availability of, and secure both application traffic and computing resources. A key product within our application networking services category is Cisco Wide Area Application Services (WAAS), a comprehensive WAN optimization solution that is enabled for SaaS-based applications and the Integrated Service Router G2 Services Ready Engine. Cisco Unified Computing System (UCS) and Server Virtualization form the core of Cisco Data Center products. The UCS platform unites computing, network, storage access, and virtualization into a cohesive system. Key products within our UCS platform are Cisco UCS B-Series Blade Servers and Cisco UCS C-Series Rack-Mount Servers supported by fabric interconnects which include our lossless FCoE interconnect switch that consolidates input/output within the system, server chassis, fabric extenders, and network adapters. Data Center The Cisco Unified Wireless Network is designed to unify high-performance 802.11n wireless access across campus, branch, remote, and outdoor environments. This wireless system strives to maximize flexibility and reliability with its access point, controller, antenna, and integrated management products. Simplified management and mobile device troubleshooting are features of the platform designed to reduce operational cost. This platform delivers, through an open application programming interface (API), business-relevant mobility data, voice, video, and context-aware applications to partners and end-user customers. A current key product line within our wireless technology category is the Cisco Aironet product family. Wireless data centers and collaboration services as a series of network access control and entitlement solutions. A key product line within our security product category is the Cisco ASA 5500 Series Adaptive Security Appliances line. Table of Contents 5 Cisco security solutions deliver network and content security systems that are designed to enable highly secure collaboration. Our products in this category span firewall, intrusion prevention, remote access, virtual private networks (VPN), unified client, web and email security and network security. Our AnyConnect Secure Mobility Client enables users to access networks with their mobile device of choice, such as laptops and smartphone-based mobile devices while allowing organizations to manage the security risks of borderless networks. Our cloud-based web security service is designed to provide real-time threat protection and to prevent zero-day malware from reaching corporate networks, including roaming or mobile users. We focus on a proactive, layered approach to counter both existing and emerging security threats. We provide security solutions that are designed to be integrated, timely, comprehensive, and effective, helping to ensure holistic security for organizations worldwide. In addition, Cisco security systems include network and application policy solutions for identity services used in Security During fiscal 2011, Cisco introduced several new Collaboration solutions including: Cisco Quad, an enterprise social software platform; Cisco Social Miner, a social media solution for proactive customer care; Cisco TelePresence EX90 and MX200 systems designed to easily extend TelePresence to more desktops, offices and meeting spaces; Cisco Jabber, an enterprise application for presence, instant messaging, web conferencing, desktop sharing, voice and video on mobile devices, laptops and applications; Cisco WebEx for web-based collaboration with presentations, applications, documents, integrated audio and high quality video on tablets and desktops; and new desktop virtualization endpoints for thin client Collaboration applications. Cisco Collaboration portfolio integrates voice, video, data and mobile applications on fixed and mobile networks across a wide range of devices and endpoints from mobile phones and tablets to desktops, Macs and laptops to desktop virtualization clients. Specific solutions include IP phones, mobile applications, customer care, web conferencing, messaging, enterprise social software and Cisco TelePresence Systems. These solutions are available as software and web-based collaborative offerings, standalone devices, integrated components in Cisco routers and switches, and as hosted services in the cloud. Cisco strategy is to offer an open, interoperable architecture that enables customers to deliver a consistent collaboration experience regardless of device, content, location, or interaction style. These capabilities are critical capabilities in today era, which requires a collaborative workspace that is mobile, social, visual and virtual. Collaboration Our home networking strategy aligns with Cisco broader vision to enable consumers to live a connected life that is more personal, social, and visual. Our products connect different devices in the household, allowing people to share Internet access, printers, storage, video, music, movies, and games throughout the home. Products include routers, adapters, gateways, switches, modems, home network management software, and other products that are designed to provide both tech-savvy and mass-market consumers with rich in-home experiences. These products are sold through select retailers, value-added resellers, online retailers, and service providers worldwide. Our end-to-end, digital video distribution systems and digital interactive set-top boxes enable service providers and content originators to deliver entertainment, information, and communication services to consumers and businesses around the world. These systems consist of products and platforms deployed in network operation centers, headends, core and edge access networks, and outside plant environments, as well as in homes and businesses. Our range of set-top box product offerings includes both standard IP capable models and radio frequency models that can securely distribute content, as well as more advanced models with digital video recording options and whole home video capabilities for delivering standard definition and high definition video. We also provide cable modems, residential gateways, femtocell access points, and other products deployed in homes and businesses Video Connected Home New Products Table of Contents 4 During fiscal 2011, we continued to enhance our fixed configuration and modular switches to deliver key network services that are designed to work with Cisco routing, security, and wireless products to enable video collaboration, enterprise-wide energy management, and policy-based security. In fiscal 2011, we also continued to expand on the Cisco Catalyst 4500 processor module by adding a new supervisor engine and features such as Universal Power over Ethernet to power new applications such as thin clients. This supervisor engine is designed to achieve borderless network access and price-performance aggregation deployments providing increased fiber density along with hardware capabilities to support aggregation functionalities. In addition, we introduced capabilities in the Nexus 7000 for scale and convergence such as FabricPath and Director-class FCoE. Additionally, we completely refreshed our flagship Catalyst 6500 platform, tripling the performance, quadrupling the scalability, and adding new services to the platform. Switching is another integral networking technology used in campuses, branch offices, and data centers. Switches are used within buildings in local-area networks (LANs) and across great distances in wide-area networks (WANs). Our switching products offer many forms of connectivity to end users, workstations, IP phones, access points, and servers, and also function as aggregators on LANs and WANs. Our switching systems employ several widely used technologies, including Ethernet, Power over Ethernet, Fibre Channel over Ethernet (FCoE), Packet over Synchronous Optical Network, and Multiprotocol Label Switching. Many of our switches are designed to support an integrated set of advanced services, allowing organizations to be more efficient by using one switch for multiple networking functions rather than multiple switches to accomplish the same functions. Cisco offers a comprehensive family of Ethernet switching solutions from fixed-configuration to cover a range of deployments in small and medium-sized businesses, to modular switches for enterprises and service providers. Our fixed-configuration switches are designed to provide a foundation for converged data, voice, and video services. They range from small, standalone switches to stackable models that function as a single, scalable switching unit. Modular switches offer flexibility for enterprises, which due to large-scale network demands often need to deploy numerous, concurrent intelligent networking services without degrading overall performance. Key products within our switching category are the Cisco Catalyst 2960, 3560, 3750, 4500, 4900, and 6500 Series; the Nexus 1000V, 3000, 4000, 5000 and 7000 Series switches; and Cisco Nexus 2000 Series Fabric Extenders. Switching During fiscal 2011, we introduced enhancements to the ASR 9000 System, which complement the Cisco CRS-3 located in the core of the next-generation Internet. We believe these new enhancements will help enable compelling new experiences for consumers, new revenue opportunities for service providers, and new ways to collaborate in the workplace. Routing technology is fundamental to the Internet, and this technology interconnects public and private IP networks for mobile, data, voice, and video applications. Our routing products are designed to enhance the intelligence, security, reliability, scalability, and level of performance in the transmission of information and media-rich applications. We offer a broad range of routers, from core network infrastructure and mobile Internet network for service providers and enterprises to access routers for branch offices and for telecommuters and consumers at home. Key products within our routing category are the Cisco 800, 1900, 2900, and 3900 Series Integrated Services Routers as well as the Cisco Aggregation Services Routers (ASR) 1000, 5000 and 9000 Series; Cisco 7600 and 12000 Series Routers; and the Cisco Carrier Routing System (CRS), CRS-1 and CRS-3. Routing Our current offerings fall into several categories: For a discussion of the risks associated with our strategy, see Item 1A. Risk Factors, including the risk factor entitled We depend upon the development of new products and enhancements to existing products, and if we fail to predict and respond to emerging technological trends and customers changing needs, our operating results and market share may suffer. For information regarding sales of our major products and services, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Table of Contents 3 We believe that the architectural approach that has served us well in the past in addressing market opportunities in the communications and IT industry will be adaptable to other markets. An example of a market where we aim to apply this approach is mobility, where growth of IP traffic on handheld devices is driving the need for more robust architectures, equipment and services in order to accommodate not only an increasing number of worldwide mobile device users, but also increased user demand for broadband-quality business network and consumer web applications to be delivered on such devices. Other market transitions on which we are focusing particular attention include those related to the increased role of video, collaboration, and networked mobility technologies. The key market transitions relative to the convergence of video, collaboration, and networked mobility technologies, which we believe will drive productivity and growth in network loads, appear to be evolving even more quickly and more significantly than we had previously anticipated. Cisco TelePresence systems are one example of product offerings that have incorporated video, collaboration, and networked mobility technologies, as customers evolve their communications and business models. We are focused on simplifying and expanding the creation, distribution, and use of end-to-end video solutions for businesses and consumers. The competitive landscape in the enterprise data center market is changing. Very large, well-financed, and aggressive competitors are each bringing their own new class of products to address this new market. We expect this competitive market trend to continue. With respect to this market, we believe the network will be the intersection of innovation through an open ecosystem and standards. We expect to see acquisitions, further industry consolidation, and new alliances among companies as they seek to serve the enterprise data center market. As we enter this next market phase, we expect that we will strengthen certain strategic alliances, compete more with certain strategic alliances and partners, and perhaps also encounter new competitors in our attempt to deliver the best solutions for our customers. This virtualization and cloud-driven market transition in the enterprise data center market is being brought about through the convergence of networking, computing, storage, and software technologies. We are seeking to take advantage of this market transition through, among other things, our Cisco Unified Computing System platform and Cisco Nexus product families, which are designed to integrate the previously siloed technologies in the enterprise data center with a unified architecture. We are also seeking to capitalize on this market transition through the development of other cloud-based product and service offerings through which we intend to enable customers to develop and deploy their own cloud-based IT solutions, including software-as-a-service (SaaS) and other-as-a-service (XaaS) solutions. refers to an information technology hosting and delivery system in which resources, such as servers or software applications, are no longer tethered to a user physical infrastructure but instead are delivered to and consumed by the user on demand as an Internet-based service, whether singularly or with multiple other users simultaneously. The cloud: refers to the process of aggregating the current siloed data center resources into unified, shared resource pools that can be dynamically delivered to applications on demand thus enabling the ability to move content and applications between devices and the network. Virtualization: We continue to seek to capitalize on market transitions. Market transitions on which we are primarily focused include those related to the increased role of virtualization/the cloud, video, collaboration, networked mobility technologies and the transition from Internet Protocol Version 4 to Internet Protocol Version 6. For example, a market in which a significant market transition is under way is the enterprise data center market, where a transition to virtualization / the cloud is rapidly evolving. There is a continued growing awareness that intelligent networks are becoming the platform for productivity improvement and global competitiveness. We believe that disruption in the enterprise data center market is accelerating, due to changing technology trends such as the increasing adoption of virtualization, the rise in scalable processing, and the advent of cloud computing and cloud-based IT resource deployments and business models. These key terms are defined as follows: Table of Contents 2 We are currently undergoing product transitions in our core business and introducing next-generation products with higher price performance and architectural advantages compared to both our prior generation of products and the product offerings of our competitors. We believe that many of these product transitions are gaining momentum based on the strong year-over-year product revenue growth across these next-generation product families. We believe that our strategy and our ability to innovate and execute may enable us to improve our relative competitive position in many of our product areas even in uncertain or difficult business conditions and, therefore, may continue to provide us with long-term growth opportunities. However, we believe that these newly introduced products may continue to negatively impact product gross margins, which we are currently striving to address through various initiatives including value engineering, effective supply chain management, and delivering greater customer value through offers that include hardware, software, and services. We believe that focusing on these priorities will best position us to continue to expand our share of our customers information technology spending. Architectures for business transformation Video Data center virtualization and cloud Collaboration Leadership in our core business (routing, switching, and associated services) which includes comprehensive security and mobility solutions We announced a plan in May 2011, which we began implementing in fiscal 2011 and expect to complete in fiscal 2012, to realign our sales, services and engineering organizations in order to simplify our operating model and focus on our five foundational priorities: Network architectures, built on core routing and switching technologies, are evolving to accommodate the demands of increasing numbers of users, network applications and new network-related markets. These new markets are a natural extension of our core business and have emerged as the network has become the platform for provisioning, integrating and delivering an ever-increasing array of IT-based products and services. Our products are used individually or as integrated offerings to connect personal and business computing devices to networks or computer networks with each other whether they are within a building, across a campus, or around the world. Our breadth of product and service offerings across multiple technology segments enables us to offer a wide range of products and services to meet customer-specific requirements. We also provide products and services that allow customers to transition their various networks to a single multi-service data, voice, and video network, thereby enabling economies of scale. and opportunities improving productivity and user experience, reducing costs, and gaining a competitive advantage and to help them connect more effectively with their key stakeholders, including their customers, prospects, business partners, suppliers, and employees. We deliver networking products and solutions designed to simplify and secure customers network infrastructures. We also deliver products and solutions that leverage the network to most effectively address market transitions and customer requirements including in recent periods, virtualization, cloud, collaboration, and video. We believe that integrating multiple network services into and across our products helps our customers reduce their operational complexity, increase their agility and reduce their total cost of network ownership. Our product offerings fall into the following categories: our core technologies, Routing and Switching; New Products; and Other Products. In addition to our product offerings, we provide a broad range of service offerings, including technical support services and advanced services. Our customer base spans virtually all types of public and private agencies and businesses, comprising enterprise businesses, service providers, commercial customers, and consumers. Table of Contents 1 As part of our business focus on the network as the platform for all forms of communications and IT, our products and services are designed to help our customers use technology to address their business imperatives Products and Services We were incorporated in California in December 1984, and our headquarters are in San Jose, California. The mailing address of our headquarters is 170 West Tasman Drive, San Jose, California 95134-1706, and our telephone number at that location is (408) 526-4000. Our website is www.cisco.com. Through a link on the Investor Relations section of our website, we make available the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ): our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. All such filings are available free of charge. We conduct our business globally and are managed geographically in four segments: United States and Canada, European Markets, Emerging Markets, and Asia Pacific Markets. The Emerging Markets segment consists of Eastern Europe, Latin America, the Middle East and Africa, and Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent States. For revenue and other information regarding these segments, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. As we strive for faster decision making with greater accountability and alignment to support our emerging countries and our five foundational priorities as discussed below, beginning in fiscal 2012, we will organize into the following three geographic segments: The Americas; Europe, Middle East, and Africa ( EMEA ); and Asia Pacific, Japan, and China ( APJC ). We design, manufacture, and sell Internet Protocol (IP)-based networking and other products related to the communications and information technology (IT) industry and provide services associated with these products and their use. We provide a broad line of products for transporting data, voice, and video within buildings, across campuses, and around the world. Our products are designed to transform how people connect, communicate, and collaborate. Our products are installed at enterprise businesses, public institutions, telecommunications companies and other service providers, commercial businesses, and personal residences. General Business Item 1. PART I This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results that are subject to the safe harbors created under the Securities Act of 1933 (the Securities Act ) and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act ). All statements other than statements of historical facts are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the industries in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words such as expects, anticipates, targets, goals, projects, intends, plans, believes, seeks, estimates, continues, endeavors, strives, may, variations of such words, and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to projections of our future financial performance, our anticipated growth and trends in our businesses, and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict, including those identified below, under Item 1A. Risk Factors, and elsewhere herein. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason. Table of Contents 135 Signatures 133 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules Item 15. PART IV 132 Principal Accountant Fees and Services Item 14. 132 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence Item 13. 132 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 12. 132 Executive Compensation Item 11. 131 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Item 10. PART III 131 Other Information Item 9B. 131 Controls and Procedures Item 9A. 131 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9. 77 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 8. 74 
