CIK: 872589
Company Name: REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS INC
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2010-02-18
Accession Number: 0001206774-10-000298


ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview We are a biopharmaceutical company that discovers, develops, and commercializes pharmaceutical products for the treatment of serious medical conditions. We currently have one marketed product: ARCALYST (rilonacept) Injection for Subcutaneous Use, which is available for prescription in the United States for the treatment of Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndromes (CAPS), including Familial Cold Auto-inflammatory Syndrome (FCAS) and Muckle-Wells Syndrome (MWS) in adults and children 12 and older. We also have eight product candidates in clinical development, including three product candidates that are in late-stage (Phase 3) clinical development. Our late stage programs are rilonacept, which is being developed for the prevention and treatment of gout-related flares; VEGF Trap-Eye, which is being developed in eye diseases using intraocular delivery in collaboration with Bayer HealthCare; and aflibercept (VEGF Trap), which is being developed in oncology in collaboration with sanofi-aventis. Our earlier stage clinical programs are REGN475, an antibody to Nerve Growth Factor (NGF), which is being developed for the treatment of pain; REGN88, an antibody to the interleukin-6 receptor (IL-6R), which is being developed in rheumatoid arthritis; REGN421, an antibody to Delta-like ligand-4 (Dll4), which is being developed in oncology; REGN727, an antibody to PCSK9, which is being developed for LDL cholesterol reduction; and REGN668, an antibody to the interleukin-4 receptor (IL-4R), which is being developed for certain allergic and immune conditions. All five of our early stage clinical programs are fully human antibodies that are being developed in collaboration with sanofi-aventis. Our preclinical research programs are in the areas of oncology and angiogenesis, ophthalmology, metabolic and related diseases, muscle diseases and disorders, inflammation and immune diseases, bone and cartilage, pain, cardiovascular diseases, and infectious diseases. Developing and commercializing new medicines entails significant risk and expense. Since inception we have not generated any significant sales or profits from the commercialization of ARCALYST or any of our other product candidates. Before significant revenues from the commercialization of ARCALYST or our other product candidates can be realized, we (or our collaborators) must overcome a number of hurdles which include successfully completing research and development and obtaining regulatory approval from the FDA and regulatory authorities in other countries. In addition, the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are rapidly evolving and highly competitive, and new developments may render our products and technologies uncompetitive or obsolete. 35 From inception on January 8, 1988 through December 31, 2009, we had a cumulative loss of $941.1 million. In the absence of significant revenues from the commercialization of ARCALYST (rilonacept) or our other product candidates or other sources, the amount, timing, nature, and source of which cannot be predicted, our losses will continue as we conduct our research and development activities. We expect to incur substantial losses over the next several years as we continue the clinical development of VEGF Trap-Eye and rilonacept in other indications; advance new product candidates into clinical development from our existing research programs utilizing our technology for discovering fully human monoclonal antibodies; continue our research and development programs; and commercialize additional product candidates that receive regulatory approval, if any. Also, our activities may expand over time and require additional resources, and we expect our operating losses to be substantial over at least the next several years. Our losses may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and will depend on, among other factors, the progress of our research and development efforts, the timing of certain expenses, and the amount and timing of payments that we receive from collaborators. As a company that does not expect to be profitable over the next several years, management of cash flow is extremely important. The most significant use of our cash is for research and development activities, which include drug discovery, preclinical studies, clinical trials, and the manufacture of drug supplies for preclinical studies and clinical trials. We are reimbursed for some of these research and development activities by our collaborators. Our principal sources of cash to-date have been from (i) sales of common equity, both in public offerings and to our collaborators, including sanofi-aventis, (ii) funding from our collaborators and licensees in the form of up-front and milestone payments, research progress payments, and payments for our research and development activities, and (iii) a private placement of convertible debt, which was repaid in full during 2008. In 2009, our research and development expenses totaled $398.8 million. In 2010, we expect these expenses to increase substantially as we continue to expand our research and preclinical and clinical development activities, primarily in connection with our antibody collaboration with sanofi-aventis. A primary driver of our expenses is our number of full-time employees. Our annual average headcount in 2009 was 980 compared with 810 in 2008 and 627 in 2007. In 2009 and 2008 our average headcount increased primarily to support our expanded research and development activities in connection with our antibody collaboration with sanofi-aventis. In 2007 our average headcount increased primarily to support our expanded development programs for VEGF Trap-Eye and rilonacept and our plans to move our first antibody candidate into clinical trials. In 2010, we expect our average headcount to increase to approximately 1,350-1,400, primarily to support the further expansion of our research, development, and marketing activities as described above, especially in connection with our antibody collaboration with sanofi-aventis. 36 The planning, execution, and results of our clinical programs are significant factors that can affect our operating and financial results. In our clinical programs, key events in 2009 and 2010 to date were, and plans for the remainder of 2010 are, as follows: Clinical Program 2009 and 2010 Events to Date 2010 Plans Rilonacept (also known as IL-1 Trap) Initiated patient enrollment in two Phase 3 trials (PRE-SURGE 1 and PRE- SURGE 2) evaluating rilonacept in the prevention of gout flares associated with the initiation of urate-lowering drug therapy; completed patient enrollment in the PRE-SURGE 1 study Initiated and completed patient enrollment in a Phase 3 study (SURGE) evaluating rilonacept in the treatment of acute gout flares Report data from SURGE and PRE- SURGE 1 during the first half of 2010 Complete patient enrollment of the remaining Phase 3 studies in gout VEGF Trap-Eye (intravitreal injection) Completed patient enrollment in the Phase 3 wet AMD program (VIEW 1 and VIEW 2) Initiated a Phase 3 CRVO program Reported results from the Phase 2 DME trial Report data from VIEW 1 and VIEW 2 trials in the fourth quarter of 2010 Complete patient enrollment of the Phase 3 CRVO trials Aflibercept (VEGF Trap Oncology) Completed patient enrollment in the Phase 3 studies in non-small cell lung cancer and prostate cancer Initiated a Phase 2 1 st line study in metastatic colorectal cancer in combination with chemotherapy Reported results of a Phase 2 single- agent study in symptomatic malignant ascites (SMA) Discontinued a Phase 3 study in metastatic pancreatic cancer in combination with chemotherapy Complete patient enrollment in the Phase 3 study in colorectal cancer During the second half of 2010, an Independent Data Monitoring Committee is expected to conduct an interim analysis of the Phase 3 study in colorectal cancer Monoclonal Antibodies REGN475: Initiated a Phase 1 trial in healthy volunteers, a dose-ranging, proof-of-concept study in osteoarthritis of the knee, and additional proof-of- concept studies in pain associated with sciatica, vertebral fracture, chronic pancreatitis, and thermal injury REGN88: Initiated a Phase 2/3 dose- ranging study in rheumatoid arthritis and a Phase 2 dose-ranging study in ankylosing spondylitis REGN421: Initiated a Phase 1 trial in oncology REGN727: Initiated a Phase 1 program in healthy volunteers REGN668: Initiated a Phase 1 program in healthy volunteers REGN475: Report data from the study in osteoarthritis of the knee during the first half of 2010 and from the study in sciatica during the second half of 2010 REGN727: Report proof-of-concept data from the Phase 1 program and initiate a Phase 2 program for LDL cholesterol reduction REGN668: Initiate a Phase 2 program in the treatment of a chronic allergic condition REGN88: Report data from a Phase 1 trial in rheumatoid arthritis Advance additional antibody candidate(s) into clinical development 37 Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates A summary of the significant accounting policies that impact us is provided in Note 2 to our Financial Statements, beginning on page F-7. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts and related disclosures in the financial statements. Management considers an accounting estimate to be critical if: It requires an assumption (or assumptions) regarding a future outcome; and Changes in the estimate or the use of different assumptions to prepare the estimate could have a material effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Management believes the current assumptions used to estimate amounts reflected in our financial statements are appropriate. However, if actual experience differs from the assumptions used in estimating amounts reflected in our financial statements, the resulting changes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, and in certain situations, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. The critical accounting estimates that impact our financial statements are described below. Revenue Recognition Collaboration Revenue We earn collaboration revenue in connection with collaboration agreements to develop and commercialize product candidates and utilize our technology platforms. We currently have collaboration agreements with sanofi-aventis and Bayer HealthCare. The terms of collaboration agreements typically include non-refundable up-front licensing payments, research progress (milestone) payments, and payments for development activities. Non-refundable up-front license payments, where continuing involvement is required of us, are deferred and recognized over the related performance period. We estimate our performance period based on the specific terms of each agreement, and adjust the performance periods, if appropriate, based on the applicable facts and circumstances. Payments which are based on achieving a specific substantive performance milestone, involving a degree of risk, are recognized as revenue when the milestone is achieved and the related payment is due and non-refundable, provided there is no future service obligation associated with that milestone. Substantive performance milestones typically consist of significant achievements in the development life-cycle of the related product candidate, such as completion of clinical trials, filing for approval with regulatory agencies, and approvals by regulatory agencies. In determining whether a payment is deemed to be a substantive performance milestone, we take into consideration (i) the nature, timing, and value of significant achievements in the development life-cycle of the related development product candidate, (ii) the relative level of effort required to achieve the milestone, and (iii) the relative level of risk in achieving the milestone, taking into account the high degree of uncertainty in successfully advancing product candidates in a drug development program and in ultimately attaining an approved drug product. Payments for achieving milestones which are not considered substantive are accounted for as license payments and recognized over the related performance period. We enter into collaboration agreements that include varying arrangements regarding which parties perform and bear the costs of research and development activities. We may share the costs of research and development activities with our collaborator, such as in our VEGF Trap-Eye collaboration with Bayer HealthCare, or we may be reimbursed for all or a significant portion of the costs of our research and development activities, such as in our aflibercept and antibody collaborations with sanofi-aventis. We record our internal and third-party development costs associated with these collaborations as research and development expenses. When we are entitled to reimbursement of all or a portion of the research and development expenses that we incur under a collaboration, we record those reimbursable amounts as collaboration revenue proportionately as we recognize our expenses. If the collaboration is a cost-sharing arrangement in which both we and our collaborator perform development work and share costs, in periods when our collaborator incurs development expenses that benefit the collaboration and Regeneron, we also recognize, as additional research and development expense, the portion of the collaborator development expenses that we are obligated to reimburse. 38 In connection with non-refundable licensing payments, our performance period estimates are principally based on projections of the scope, progress, and results of our research and development activities. Due to the variability in the scope of activities and length of time necessary to develop a drug product, changes to development plans as programs progress, and uncertainty in the ultimate requirements to obtain governmental approval for commercialization, revisions to performance period estimates are likely to occur periodically, and could result in material changes to the amount of revenue recognized each year in the future. In addition, our estimated performance periods may change if development programs encounter delays or we and our collaborators decide to expand or contract our clinical plans for a drug candidate in various disease indications. For example, during the fourth quarter of 2008, we extended our estimated performance period in connection with the up-front and non-substantive milestone payments previously received from Bayer HealthCare pursuant to the companies VEGF Trap-Eye collaboration and shortened our estimated performance period in connection with up-front payments from sanofi-aventis pursuant to the companies aflibercept collaboration. The net effect of these changes in our estimates resulted in the recognition of $0.4 million less in collaboration revenue in the fourth quarter of 2008, compared to amounts recognized in connection with these deferred payments in each of the prior three quarters of 2008. In addition, in connection with amendments to expand and extend our antibody collaboration with sanofi-aventis, during the fourth quarter of 2009, we extended our estimated performance period related to the up-front payment previously received from sanofi-aventis pursuant to the companies antibody collaboration. The effect of this change in estimate resulted in the recognition of $0.6 million less in collaboration revenue in the fourth quarter of 2009, compared to amounts recognized in each of the prior three quarters of 2009. Also, if a collaborator terminates an agreement in accordance with the terms of the agreement, we would recognize any unamortized remainder of an up-front or previously deferred payment at the time of the termination. Product Revenue In March 2008, ARCALYST (rilonacept) became available for prescription in the United States for the treatment of CAPS. Revenue from product sales is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, title to product and associated risk of loss has passed to the customer, the price is fixed or determinable, collection from the customer is reasonably assured, and we have no further performance obligations. Revenue and deferred revenue from product sales are recorded net of applicable provisions for prompt pay discounts, product returns, estimated rebates payable under governmental programs (including Medicaid), distributor fees, and other sales-related costs. Since we have limited historical return and rebate experience for ARCALYST, product sales revenues are deferred until (i) the right of return no longer exists or we can reasonably estimate returns and (ii) rebates have been processed or we can reasonably estimate rebates. We review our estimates of rebates payable each period and record any necessary adjustments in the current period net product sales. Clinical Trial Expenses Clinical trial costs are a significant component of research and development expenses and include costs associated with third-party contractors. We outsource a substantial portion of our clinical trial activities, utilizing external entities such as contract research organizations, independent clinical investigators, and other third-party service providers to assist us with the execution of our clinical studies. For each clinical trial that we conduct, certain clinical trial costs are expensed immediately, while others are expensed over time based on the expected total number of patients in the trial, the rate at which patients enter the trial, and the period over which clinical investigators or contract research organizations are expected to provide services. Clinical activities which relate principally to clinical sites and other administrative functions to manage our clinical trials are performed primarily by contract research organizations (CROs). CROs typically perform most of the start-up activities for our trials, including document preparation, site identification, screening and preparation, pre-study visits, training, and program management. On a budgeted basis, these start-up costs are typically 10% to 20% of the total contract value. On an actual basis, this percentage range can be significantly wider, as many of our contracts with CROs are either expanded or reduced in scope compared to the original budget, while start-up costs for the particular trial may not change materially. These start-up costs usually occur within a few months after the contract has been executed and are event driven in nature. The remaining activities and related costs, such as patient monitoring and administration, generally occur ratably throughout the life of the individual contract or study. In the event of early termination of a clinical trial, we accrue and recognize expenses in an amount based on our estimate of the remaining non-cancelable obligations associated with the winding down of the clinical trial and/or penalties. 39 For clinical study sites, where payments are made periodically on a per-patient basis to the institutions performing the clinical study, we accrue expense on an estimated cost-per-patient basis, based on subject enrollment and activity in each quarter. The amount of clinical study expense recognized in a quarter may vary from period to period based on the duration and progress of the study, the activities to be performed by the sites each quarter, the required level of patient enrollment, the rate at which patients actually enroll in and drop-out of the clinical study, and the number of sites involved in the study. Clinical trials that bear the greatest risk of change in estimates are typically those that have a significant number of sites, require a large number of patients, have complex patient screening requirements, and span multiple years. During the course of a trial, we adjust our rate of clinical expense recognition if actual results differ from our estimates. Our estimates and assumptions for clinical expense recognition could differ significantly from our actual results, which could cause material increases or decreases in research and development expenses in future periods when the actual results become known. No material adjustments to our past clinical trial accrual estimates were made during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, or 2007. Stock-based Employee Compensation We recognize stock-based compensation expense for grants of stock option awards and restricted stock to employees and non-employee members of our board of directors under our long-term incentive plans based on the grant-date fair value of those awards. The grant-date fair value of an award is generally recognized as compensation expense over the award requisite service period. We use the Black-Scholes model to compute the estimated fair value of stock option awards. Using this model, fair value is calculated based on assumptions with respect to (i) expected volatility of our Common Stock price, (ii) the periods of time over which employees and members of our board of directors are expected to hold their options prior to exercise (expected lives), (iii) expected dividend yield on our Common Stock, and (iv) risk-free interest rates, which are based on quoted U.S. Treasury rates for securities with maturities approximating the options expected lives. Expected volatility has been estimated based on actual movements in our stock price over the most recent historical periods equivalent to the options expected lives. Expected lives are principally based on our historical exercise experience with previously issued employee and board of directors option grants. The expected dividend yield is zero as we have never paid dividends and do not currently anticipate paying any in the foreseeable future. Stock-based compensation expense also includes an estimate, which is made at the time of grant, of the number of awards that are expected to be forfeited. This estimate is revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. The assumptions used in computing the fair value of option awards reflect our best estimates but involve uncertainties related to market and other conditions, many of which are outside of our control. Changes in any of these assumptions may materially affect the fair value of stock options granted and the amount of stock-based compensation recognized in future periods. In addition, we have granted performance-based stock option awards which vest based upon the optionee satisfying certain performance and service conditions as defined in the agreements. Potential compensation cost, measured on the grant date, related to these performance options will be recognized only if, and when, we estimate that these options will vest, which is based on whether we consider the options performance conditions to be probable of attainment. Our estimates of the number of performance-based options that will vest will be revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods. Changes in these estimates may materially affect the amount of stock-based compensation that we recognize in future periods related to performance-based options. Marketable Securities We have invested our excess cash primarily in direct obligations of the U.S. government and its agencies, other debt securities guaranteed by the U.S. government, and money market funds that invest in U.S. Government securities and, to a lesser extent, investment grade debt securities issued by corporations, bank deposits, and asset-backed securities. We consider our marketable securities to be available-for-sale, as defined by authoritative guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). These assets are carried at fair value and the unrealized gains and losses are included in other accumulated comprehensive income (loss) as a separate component of stockholders equity. If the decline in the value of a marketable security in our investment portfolio is deemed to be other-than-temporary, we write down the security to its current fair value and recognize a loss that may be charged against income. 40 On a quarterly basis, we review our portfolio of marketable securities, using both quantitative and qualitative factors, to determine if declines in fair value below cost are other-than-temporary. Such factors include the length of time and the extent to which market value has been less than cost, financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, recommendations of investment advisors, and forecasts of economic, market, or industry trends. With respect to debt securities, this review process also includes an evaluation of our intent to sell an individual debt security or our need to sell the debt security before its anticipated recovery or maturity. With respect to equity securities, this review process includes an evaluation of our ability and intent to hold the securities until their full value can be recovered. This review is subjective and requires a high degree of judgment. As a result of our quarterly reviews of our marketable securities portfolio, during 2009, 2008, and 2007 we recorded charges for other-than-temporary impairment of our marketable securities totaling $0.1 million, $2.5 million, and $5.9 million, respectively. The current economic environment and the deterioration in the credit quality of issuers of securities that we hold increase the risk of potential declines in the current market value of marketable securities in our investment portfolio. Such declines could result in charges against income in future periods for other-than-temporary impairments and the amounts could be material. Depreciation of Property, Plant, and Equipment Property, plant, and equipment are stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets. In some situations, the life of the asset may be extended or shortened if circumstances arise that would lead us to believe that the estimated life of the asset has changed. The life of leasehold improvements may change based on the extension of lease contracts with our landlords. Changes in the estimated lives of assets will result in an increase or decrease in the amount of depreciation recognized in future periods. Results of Operations Years Ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 Net Loss Regeneron reported a net loss of $67.8 million, or $0.85 per share (basic and diluted), for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to a net loss of $79.1 million, or $1.00 per share (basic and diluted) for 2008. The decrease in our net loss in 2009 was principally due to higher collaboration revenue in connection with our antibody collaboration with sanofi-aventis, receipt of a $20.0 million substantive performance milestone payment in connection with our VEGF Trap-Eye collaboration with Bayer HealthCare, and higher ARCALYST (rilonacept) sales, partially offset by higher research and development expenses, as detailed below. Revenues Revenues in 2009 and 2008 consist of the following: (In millions) 2009 2008 Collaboration revenue Sanofi-aventis $ 247.2 $ 154.0 Bayer HealthCare 67.3 31.2 Total collaboration revenue 314.5 185.2 Technology licensing revenue 40.0 40.0 Net product sales 18.4 6.3 Contract research and other revenue 6.4 7.0 Total revenue $ 379.3 $ 238.5 Sanofi-aventis Collaboration Revenue The collaboration revenue we earn from sanofi-aventis, as detailed below, consists primarily of reimbursement for research and development expenses and recognition of revenue related to non-refundable up-front payments of $105.0 million related to the aflibercept collaboration and $85.0 million related to the antibody collaboration. 41 Years ended December 31, Sanofi-aventis Collaboration Revenue 2009 2008 (In millions) Aflibercept: Regeneron expense reimbursement $ 26.6 $ 35.6 Recognition of deferred revenue related to up-front payments 9.9 8.8 Total aflibercept 36.5 44.4 Antibody: Regeneron expense reimbursement 198.1 97.9 Recognition of deferred revenue related to up-front payment 9.9 10.5 Recognition of revenue related to VelociGene agreement 2.7 1.2 Total antibody 210.7 109.6 Total sanofi-aventis collaboration revenue $ 247.2 $ 154.0 Sanofi-aventis reimbursement of our aflibercept expenses decreased in 2009 compared to 2008, primarily due to lower costs related to internal research activities and manufacturing aflibercept clinical supplies. Recognition of deferred revenue related to sanofi-aventis up-front aflibercept payments increased in 2009 compared to 2008 due to shortening the estimated performance period over which this deferred revenue is being recognized, effective in the fourth quarter of 2008. As of December 31, 2009, $42.5 million of the original $105.0 million of up-front payments related to aflibercept was deferred and will be recognized as revenue in future periods. In 2009, sanofi-aventis reimbursement of our antibody expenses consisted of $99.8 million under the discovery agreement and $98.3 million of development costs under the license agreement, compared to $72.2 million and $25.7 million, respectively, in 2008. The higher reimbursement amounts in 2009 compared to 2008 were due to an increase in our research activities conducted under the discovery agreement and increases in our development activities for antibody candidates under the license agreement. Recognition of deferred revenue related to sanofi-aventis $85.0 million up-front payment decreased in 2009 compared to 2008 due to the November 2009 amendments to expand and extend the companies antibody collaboration. As of December 31, 2009, $63.7 million of the original $85.0 million up-front payment was deferred and will be recognized as revenue in future periods. In August 2008, we entered into a separate VelociGene agreement with sanofi-aventis. In 2009 and 2008, we recognized $2.7 million and $1.2 million, respectively, in revenue related to this agreement. Bayer HealthCare Collaboration Revenue The collaboration revenue we earn from Bayer HealthCare, as detailed below, consists of cost sharing of Regeneron VEGF Trap-Eye development expenses, substantive performance milestone payments, and recognition of revenue related to a non-refundable $75.0 million up-front payment and a $20.0 million milestone payment received in August 2007 (which, for the purpose of revenue recognition, was not considered substantive). Years ended December 31, Bayer HealthCare Collaboration Revenue 2009 2008 (In millions) Cost-sharing of Regeneron VEGF Trap-Eye development expenses $ 37.4 $ 18.8 Substantive performance milestone payment 20.0 Recognition of deferred revenue related to up-front and other milestone payments 9.9 12.4 Total Bayer HealthCare collaboration revenue $ 67.3 $ 31.2 Cost-sharing of our VEGF Trap-Eye development expenses with Bayer HealthCare increased in 2009 compared to 2008. Under the terms of the collaboration, in 2009, all agreed-upon VEGF Trap-Eye development expenses incurred by Regeneron and Bayer HealthCare under a global development plan were shared equally. In 2008, the first $70.0 million of agreed-upon VEGF Trap-Eye development expenses were shared equally, and we were solely responsible for up to the next $30.0 million. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we were solely responsible for most of the collaboration VEGF Trap-Eye development expenses, which reduced the amount of cost-sharing revenue we earned from Bayer HealthCare in 2008. In addition, cost-sharing revenue increased in 2009, compared to 2008, due 42 to higher clinical development costs in connection with our VIEW 1 trial in wet AMD, Phase 2 trial in DME, and Phase 3 trial in CRVO. In July 2009, we received a $20.0 million substantive performance milestone payment from Bayer HealthCare in connection with the dosing of the first patient in a Phase 3 trial of VEGF Trap-Eye in CRVO, which was recognized as collaboration revenue. Recognition of deferred revenue related to the up-front and August 2007 milestone payments from Bayer HealthCare decreased in 2009 from 2008 due to an extension of the estimated performance period over which this deferred revenue is being recognized, effective in the fourth quarter of 2008. As of December 31, 2009, $56.8 million of these up-front licensing and milestone payments was deferred and will be recognized as revenue in future periods. Technology Licensing Revenue In connection with our VelocImmune license agreements with AstraZeneca and Astellas, each of the $20.0 million annual, non-refundable payments are deferred upon receipt and recognized as revenue ratably over approximately the ensuing year of each agreement. In both 2009 and 2008, we recognized $40.0 million of technology licensing revenue related to these agreements. Net Product Sales In 2009 and 2008, we recognized as revenue $18.4 million and $6.3 million, respectively, of ARCALYST (rilonacept) net product sales for which both the right of return no longer exists and rebates can be reasonably estimated. At December 31, 2009, deferred revenue related to ARCALYST net product sales totaled $4.8 million. Contract Research and Other Revenue Contract research and other revenue in 2009 and 2008 included $5.5 million and $4.9 million, respectively, recognized in connection with our five-year grant from the NIH, which we were awarded in September 2006 as part of the NIH Knockout Mouse Project. Expenses Total operating expenses increased to $453.4 million in 2009 from $324.7 million in 2008. Our average headcount in 2009 increased to 980 from 810 in 2008 principally as a result of our expanding research and development activities, which are primarily attributable to our antibody collaboration with sanofi-aventis. Operating expenses in 2009 and 2008 include a total of $31.3 million and $32.5 million, respectively, of non-cash compensation expense related to employee stock option and restricted stock awards (Non-cash Compensation Expense), as detailed below: For the year ended December 31, 2009 Expenses before inclusion of Non-cash Non-cash Compensation Compensation Expenses as Expenses Expense Expense Reported (In millions) Research and development $380.0 $18.8 $398.8 Selling, general, and administrative 40.4 12.5 52.9 Cost of goods sold 1.7 1.7 Total operating expenses $422.1 $31.3 $453.4 For the year ended December 31, 2008 Expenses before inclusion of Non-cash Non-cash Compensation Compensation Expenses as Expenses Expense Expense Reported (In millions) Research and development $255.9 $19.0 $274.9 Selling, general, and administrative 35.4 13.5 48.9 Cost of goods sold 0.9 0.9 Total operating expenses $292.2 $32.5 $324.7 43 The decrease in total Non-cash Compensation Expense in 2009 was primarily attributable to the lower fair market value of our Common Stock on the date of our annual employee option grants made in December 2008 as compared to the fair market value of annual employee option grants made in recent years prior to 2008. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses increased to $398.4 million in 2009 from $274.9 million in 2008. The following table summarizes the major categories of our research and development expenses in 2009 and 2008: Year Ended December 31, Research and Development Expenses 2009 2008 Increase (In millions) Payroll and benefits (1) $ 99.9 $ 81.7 $ 18.2 Clinical trial expenses 111.6 49.3 62.3 Clinical manufacturing costs (2) 66.7 53.8 12.9 Research and preclinical development costs 42.3 29.6 12.7 Occupancy and other operating costs 40.6 30.5 10.1 Cost-sharing of Bayer HealthCare VEGF Trap-Eye development expenses (3) 37.7 30.0 7.7 Total research and development $ 398.8 $ 274.9 $ 123.9 ____________________ (1) Includes $16.2 million and $16.7 million of Non-cash Compensation Expense in 2009 and 2008, respectively. (2) Represents the full cost of manufacturing drug for use in research, preclinical development, and clinical trials, including related payroll and benefits, Non-cash Compensation Expense, manufacturing materials and supplies, depreciation, and occupancy costs of our Rensselaer manufacturing facility. Includes $2.6 million and $2.3 million of Non-cash Compensation Expense in 2009 and 2008, respectively. (3) Under our collaboration with Bayer HealthCare, in periods when Bayer HealthCare incurs VEGF Trap-Eye development expenses, we also recognize, as additional research and development expense, the portion of Bayer HealthCare VEGF Trap-Eye development expenses that we are obligated to reimburse. Bayer HealthCare provides us with estimated VEGF Trap-Eye development expenses for the most recent fiscal quarter. Bayer HealthCare estimate is reconciled to its actual expenses for such quarter in the subsequent fiscal quarter and our portion of its VEGF Trap-Eye development expenses that we are obligated to reimburse is adjusted accordingly. Payroll and benefits increased principally due to the increase in employee headcount, as described above. Clinical trial expenses increased due primarily to higher costs related to our clinical development programs for (i) VEGF Trap-Eye, including our VIEW 1 trial in wet AMD, DA VINCI trial in DME, and COPERNICUS trial in CRVO, (ii) rilonacept, related to our Phase 3 clinical development program in gout, and (iii) monoclonal antibody candidates, which are in earlier stage clinical development. Clinical manufacturing costs increased due to higher costs related to manufacturing clinical supplies of rilonacept and monoclonal antibodies, partially offset by lower costs related to manufacturing aflibercept clinical supplies. Research and preclinical development costs increased primarily due to higher costs associated with our antibody programs. Occupancy and other operating costs increased principally in connection with our higher headcount, expanded research and development activities, and new and expanded leased laboratory and office facilities in Tarrytown, New York. Cost-sharing of Bayer HealthCare VEGF Trap-Eye development expenses increased primarily due to higher costs in connection with the VIEW 2 trial in wet AMD and the GALILEO trial in CRVO, both of which are being conducted by Bayer HealthCare. 44 We prepare estimates of research and development costs for projects in clinical development, which include direct costs and allocations of certain costs such as indirect labor, Non-cash Compensation Expense, and manufacturing and other costs related to activities that benefit multiple projects, and, under our collaboration with Bayer HealthCare, the portion of Bayer HealthCare VEGF Trap-Eye development expenses that we are obligated to reimburse. Our estimates of research and development costs for clinical development programs are shown below: Year ended December 31, Increase Project Costs 2009 2008 (Decrease) (In millions) Rilonacept $ 67.7 $ 39.2 $ 28.5 VEGF Trap-Eye 109.8 82.7 27.1 Aflibercept 23.3 32.1 (8.8 ) REGN88 36.9 21.4 15.5 Other antibody candidates in clinical development 74.4 27.4 47.0 Other research programs & unallocated costs 86.7 72.1 14.6 Total research and development expenses $ 398.8 $ 274.9 $ 123.9 Drug development and approval in the United States is a multi-step process regulated by the FDA. The process begins with discovery and preclinical evaluation, leading up to the submission of an IND to the FDA which, if successful, allows the opportunity for study in humans, or clinical study, of the potential new drug. Clinical development typically involves three phases of study: Phases 1, 2, and 3. The most significant costs in clinical development are in Phase 3 clinical trials, as they tend to be the longest and largest studies in the drug development process. Following successful completion of Phase 3 clinical trials for a biological product, a biologics license application (or BLA) must be submitted to, and accepted by, the FDA, and the FDA must approve the BLA prior to commercialization of the drug. It is not uncommon for the FDA to request additional data following its review of a BLA, which can significantly increase the drug development timeline and expenses. We may elect either on our own, or at the request of the FDA, to conduct further studies that are referred to as Phase 3B and 4 studies. Phase 3B studies are initiated and either completed or substantially completed while the BLA is under FDA review. These studies are conducted under an IND. Phase 4 studies, also referred to as post-marketing studies, are studies that are initiated and conducted after the FDA has approved a product for marketing. In addition, as discovery research, preclinical development, and clinical programs progress, opportunities to expand development of drug candidates into new disease indications can emerge. We may elect to add such new disease indications to our development efforts (with the approval of our collaborator for joint development programs), thereby extending the period in which we will be developing a product. For example, we, and our collaborators where applicable, continue to explore further development of rilonacept, aflibercept, and VEGF Trap-Eye in different disease indications. There are numerous uncertainties associated with drug development, including uncertainties related to safety and efficacy data from each phase of drug development, uncertainties related to the enrollment and performance of clinical trials, changes in regulatory requirements, changes in the competitive landscape affecting a product candidate, and other risks and uncertainties described in Item 1A, Risk Factors under Risks Related to ARCALYST (rilonacept) and the Development of Our Product Candidates, Regulatory and Litigation Risks, and Risks Related to Commercialization of Products. The lengthy process of seeking FDA approvals, and subsequent compliance with applicable statutes and regulations, require the expenditure of substantial resources. Any failure by us to obtain, or delay in obtaining, regulatory approvals could materially adversely affect our business. For these reasons and due to the variability in the costs necessary to develop a product and the uncertainties related to future indications to be studied, the estimated cost and scope of the projects, and our ultimate ability to obtain governmental approval for commercialization, accurate and meaningful estimates of the total cost to bring our product candidates to market are not available. Similarly, we are currently unable to reasonably estimate if our product candidates will generate material product revenues and net cash inflows. In 2008, we received FDA approval for ARCALYST (rilonacept) for the treatment of CAPS, a group of rare, inherited auto-inflammatory diseases that affect a very small group of people. We shipped $20.0 million and $10.7 million of ARCALYST to our U.S. distributors in 2009 and 2008, respectively. 45 Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased to $52.9 million in 2009 from $48.9 million in 2008. In 2009, we incurred (i) higher compensation expense, (ii) higher patent-related costs, (iii) higher facility-related costs due primarily to increases in administrative headcount, and (iv) higher patient assistance costs related to ARCALYST (rilonacept). These increases were partially offset by (i) lower marketing costs related to ARCALYST, (ii) a decrease in administrative recruitment costs, and (iii) lower professional fees related to various corporate matters. Cost of Goods Sold During 2008, we began recognizing revenue and cost of goods sold from net product sales of ARCALYST. We began capitalizing inventory costs associated with commercial supplies of ARCALYST subsequent to receipt of marketing approval from the FDA in February 2008. Costs for manufacturing supplies of ARCALYST prior to receipt of FDA approval were recognized as research and development expenses in the period that the costs were incurred. Therefore, these costs are not included in cost of goods sold when revenue is recognized from the sale of those supplies of ARCALYST. Cost of goods sold in 2009 and 2008 was $1.7 million and $0.9 million, respectively, and consisted primarily of royalties and other period costs related to ARCALYST commercial supplies. Other Income and Expense Investment income decreased to $4.5 million in 2009 from $18.2 million in 2008, due primarily to lower yields on, and lower balances of, cash and marketable securities. In addition, in 2009 and 2008, deterioration in the credit quality of specific marketable securities in our investment portfolio subjected us to the risk of not being able to recover these securities carrying values. As a result, in 2009 and 2008, we recognized charges of $0.1 million and $2.5 million, respectively, related to these securities, which we considered to be other than temporarily impaired. In 2009 and 2008, these charges were either wholly or partially offset by realized gains of $0.2 million and $1.2 million, respectively, on sales of marketable securities during the year. Interest expense decreased to $2.3 million in 2009 from $7.8 million in 2008. Interest expense in 2009 was attributable to the imputed interest portion of payments to our landlord, commencing in the third quarter of 2009, to lease newly constructed laboratory and office facilities in Tarrytown, New York. Interest expense in 2008 related to $200.0 million of 5.5% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes until they were retired. During the second and third quarters of 2008, we repurchased a total of $82.5 million in principal amount of these convertible notes for $83.3 million. In connection with these repurchases, we recognized a $0.9 million loss on early extinguishment of debt, representing the premium paid on the notes plus related unamortized debt issuance costs. The remaining $117.5 million of convertible notes were repaid in full upon their maturity in October 2008. Income Tax (Benefit) Expense In 2009, we recognized a $4.1 million income tax benefit, consisting primarily of (i) $2.7 million resulting from a provision in the Worker, Homeownership, and Business Assistance Act of 2009 that allows us to claim a refund of U.S. federal alternative minimum tax that we paid in 2008, as described below, and (ii) $0.7 million resulting from a provision in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 that allows us to claim a refund for a portion of our unused pre-2006 research tax credits. In 2008, we implemented a tax planning strategy which resulted in the utilization of certain net operating loss carry-forwards that would otherwise have expired over the next several years, to offset income for tax purposes. As a result, we incurred and paid income tax expense of $3.1 million, which relates to U.S. federal and New York State alternative minimum taxes and included $0.2 million of interest and penalties. This expense was partly offset by a $0.7 million income tax benefit, resulting from a provision in the Housing Assistance Tax Act of 2008 that allowed us to claim a refund for a portion of our unused pre-2006 research tax credits. 46 Years Ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 Net Loss Regeneron reported a net loss of $79.1 million, or $1.00 per share (basic and diluted), for the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to a net loss of $106.5 million, or $1.61 per share (basic and diluted) for 2007. The decrease in net loss was principally due to revenues earned in 2008 in connection with our November 2007 antibody collaboration with sanofi-aventis, partly offset by higher research and development expenses. Revenues Revenues in 2008 and 2007 consist of the following: (In millions) 2008 2007 Collaboration revenue Sanofi-aventis $ 154.0 $ 51.7 Bayer HealthCare 31.2 35.9 Total collaboration revenue 185.2 87.6 Technology licensing revenue 40.0 28.4 Net product sales 6.3 Contract research and other revenue 7.0 9.0 Total revenue $ 238.5 $ 125.0 Sanofi-Aventis Collaboration Revenue The collaboration revenue we earn from sanofi-aventis, as detailed below, consists primarily of reimbursement for research and development expenses and recognition of revenue related to non-refundable up-front payments of $105.0 million related to the aflibercept collaboration and $85.0 million related to the antibody collaboration. Years ended December 31, Sanofi-aventis Collaboration Revenue 2008 2007 (In millions) Aflibercept: Regeneron expense reimbursement $ 35.6 $ 38.3 Recognition of deferred revenue related to up-front payments 8.8 8.8 Total aflibercept 44.4 47.1 Antibody: Regeneron expense reimbursement 97.9 3.7 Recognition of deferred revenue related to up-front payment 10.5 0.9 Recognition of revenue related to VelociGene agreement 1.2 Total antibody 109.6 4.6 Total sanofi-aventis collaboration revenue $ 154.0 $ 51.7 Sanofi-aventis reimbursement of Regeneron aflibercept expenses decreased in 2008 compared to 2007, primarily due to lower costs related to manufacturing aflibercept clinical supplies. Recognition of deferred revenue relates to sanofi-aventis up-front aflibercept payments. As of December 31, 2008, $52.4 million of the original $105.0 million of up-front payments related to aflibercept was deferred and will be recognized as revenue in future periods. In 2008, sanofi-aventis reimbursement of Regeneron antibody expenses consisted of $72.2 million under the discovery agreement and $25.7 million of development costs, related primarily to REGN88, under the license agreement, compared to $3.0 million and $0.7 million, respectively, in 2007. Recognition of deferred revenue under the antibody collaboration related to sanofi-aventis $85.0 million up-front payment. As of December 31, 2008, $73.6 million of this up-front payment was deferred and will be recognized as revenue in future periods. 47 In August 2008, we entered into a separate VelociGene agreement with sanofi-aventis. In 2008, we recognized $1.2 million in revenue related to this agreement. Bayer HealthCare Collaboration Revenue The collaboration revenue we earn from Bayer HealthCare, as detailed below, consists of cost sharing of Regeneron VEGF Trap-Eye development expenses and recognition of revenue related to a non-refundable $75.0 million up-front payment and a $20.0 million milestone payment received in August 2007 (which, for the purpose of revenue recognition, was not considered substantive). Years ended December 31, Bayer HealthCare Collaboration Revenue 2008 2007 (In millions) Cost-sharing of Regeneron VEGF Trap-Eye development expenses $ 18.8 $ 20.0 Recognition of deferred revenue related to up-front and milestone payments 12.4 15.9 Total Bayer HealthCare collaboration revenue $ 31.2 $ 35.9 For the period from the collaboration inception in October 2006 through September 30, 2007, all up-front licensing, milestone, and cost-sharing payments received or receivable from Bayer HealthCare had been fully deferred and included in deferred revenue. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we and Bayer HealthCare approved a global development plan for VEGF Trap-Eye in wet AMD. The plan included estimated development steps, timelines, and costs, as well as the projected responsibilities of each of the companies. In addition, in the fourth quarter of 2007, we and Bayer HealthCare reaffirmed the companies commitment to a DME development program and had initial estimates of development costs for VEGF Trap-Eye in DME. As a result, effective in the fourth quarter of 2007, the Company determined the appropriate accounting policy for payments from Bayer HealthCare. The $75.0 million up-front licensing and $20.0 million milestone payments from Bayer HealthCare are being recognized as collaboration revenue over the related estimated performance period. In periods when we recognize VEGF Trap-Eye development expenses that we incur under the collaboration, we also recognize, as collaboration revenue, the portion of those VEGF Trap-Eye development expenses that is reimbursable from Bayer HealthCare. In periods when Bayer HealthCare incurs agreed upon VEGF Trap-Eye development expenses that benefit the collaboration and Regeneron, we also recognize, as additional research and development expense, the portion of Bayer HealthCare VEGF Trap-Eye development expenses that we are obligated to reimburse. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we commenced recognizing previously deferred payments from Bayer HealthCare and cost-sharing of our and Bayer HealthCare 2007 VEGF Trap-Eye development expenses through a cumulative catch-up. Cost-sharing of our VEGF Trap-Eye development expenses with Bayer HealthCare decreased in 2008 compared to 2007. Under the terms of the collaboration, in 2008, the first $70.0 million of agreed-upon VEGF Trap-Eye development expenses incurred by Regeneron and Bayer HealthCare under a global development plan were shared equally, and we were solely responsible for up to the next $30.0 million. Since both we and Bayer HealthCare incurred higher VEGF Trap-Eye development expenses in 2008 compared to 2007, during the fourth quarter of 2008, we were solely responsible for most of the collaboration VEGF Trap-Eye development expenses, which partly contributed to the revenue decrease in 2008 compared to 2007. In addition, the decrease was due in part to the cumulative catchup recognized in 2007 from the inception of the collaboration in October 2006, as described above. Recognition of deferred revenue related to Bayer HealthCare $75.0 million up-front and $20.0 million milestone payments also decreased in 2008 from 2007 as a result of the cumulative catch-up. As of December 31, 2008, $66.7 million of the up-front licensing and milestone payments was deferred and will be recognized as revenue in future periods. Technology Licensing Revenue In connection with our VelocImmune license agreements with AstraZeneca and Astellas, each of the $20.0 million annual, non-refundable payments are deferred upon receipt and recognized as revenue ratably over approximately the ensuing year of each agreement. In 2008 and 2007, we recognized $40.0 million and $28.4 million, respectively, of technology licensing revenue related to these agreements. 48 Net Product Sales In 2008, we recognized as revenue $6.3 million of ARCALYST (rilonacept) net product sales for which both the right of return no longer exists and rebates can be reasonably estimated. At December 31, 2008, deferred revenue related to ARCALYST net product sales totaled $4.0 million. Contract Research and Other Revenue Contract research and other revenue in 2008 and 2007 included $4.9 million and $5.5 million, respectively, recognized in connection with our five-year grant from the NIH, which we were awarded in September 2006 as part of the NIH Knockout Mouse Project. Expenses Total operating expenses increased to $324.7 million in 2008 from $240.4 million in 2007. Our average headcount in 2008 increased to 810 from 627 in 2007 principally as a result of our expanding research and development activities which are primarily attributable to our antibody collaboration with sanofi-aventis. Operating expenses in 2008 and 2007 include a total of $32.5 million and $28.1 million, respectively, of Non-cash Compensation Expense, as detailed below: For the year ended December 31, 2008 Expenses before inclusion of Non-cash Non-cash Compensation Compensation Expenses as Expenses Expense Expense Reported (In millions) Research and development $255.9 $19.0 $274.9 Selling, general, and administrative 35.4 13.5 48.9 Cost of goods sold 0.9 0.9 Total operating expenses $292.2 $32.5 $324.7 For the year ended December 31, 2007 Expenses before inclusion of Non-cash Non-cash Compensation Compensation Expenses as Expenses Expense Expense Reported (In millions) Research and development $186.3 $16.2 $202.5 Selling, general, and administrative 26.0 11.9 37.9 Total operating expenses $212.3 $28.1 $240.4 The increase in total Non-cash Compensation Expense in 2008 was partly attributable to the higher fair market value of our Common Stock on the date of our annual employee option grants made in December 2007 in comparison to the fair market value of annual employee option grants made in recent years prior to 2006. In addition, Non-cash Compensation Expense in 2008 and 2007 included $2.2 million and $0.1 million, respectively, in connection with a December 2007 Restricted Stock award. 49 Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses increased to $274.9 million in 2008 from $202.5 million in 2007. The following table summarizes the major categories of our research and development expenses in 2008 and 2007: Year ended December 31, Research and Development Expenses 2008 2007 Increase (In millions) Payroll and benefits (1) $ 81.7 $ 60.6 $ 21.1 Clinical trial expenses 49.3 37.6 11.7 Clinical manufacturing costs (2) 53.8 47.0 6.8 Research and preclinical development costs 29.6 23.2 6.4 Occupancy and other operating costs 30.5 23.5 7.0 Cost-sharing of Bayer HealthCare VEGF Trap-Eye development expenses (3) 30.0 10.6 19.4 Total research and development $ 274.9 $ 202.5 $ 72.4 ____________________ (1) Includes $16.7 million and $13.2 million of Non-cash Compensation Expense in 2008 and 2007, respectively. (2) Represents the full cost of manufacturing drug for use in research, preclinical development, and clinical trials, including related payroll and benefits, Non-cash Compensation Expense, manufacturing materials and supplies, depreciation, and occupancy costs of our Rensselaer manufacturing facility. Includes $2.3 million and $3.0 million of Non-cash Compensation Expense in 2008 and 2007, respectively. (3) Under our collaboration with Bayer HealthCare, in periods when Bayer HealthCare incurs VEGF Trap-Eye development expenses, we also recognize, as additional research and development expense, the portion of Bayer HealthCare VEGF Trap-Eye development expenses that we are obligated to reimburse. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we commenced recognizing cost-sharing of our and Bayer Healthcare VEGF Trap-Eye development expenses. Bayer HealthCare provides us with estimated VEGF Trap-Eye development expenses for the most recent fiscal quarter. Bayer HealthCare estimate is reconciled to its actual expenses for such quarter in the subsequent fiscal quarter and our portion of its VEGF Trap-Eye development expenses that we are obligated to reimburse is adjusted accordingly. Payroll and benefits increased principally due to the increase in employee headcount, as described above. Clinical trial expenses increased due primarily to higher costs related to our clinical development programs for (i) VEGF Trap-Eye, which includes our VIEW 1 trial in wet AMD, (ii) rilonacept, which includes our Phase 2 gout flare prevention clinical study, and (iii) monoclonal antibodies, which includes REGN88 as well as clinical-related preparatory activities for REGN421. Clinical manufacturing costs increased due primarily to higher expenses related to VEGF Trap-Eye and monoclonal antibodies, including REGN88. These increases were partially offset by a reduction in manufacturing costs associated with rilonacept and aflibercept. Research and preclinical development costs increased primarily due to higher costs associated with our antibody programs. Occupancy and other operating costs increased principally in connection with our higher headcount and expanded research and development activities. Cost-sharing of Bayer HealthCare VEGF Trap-Eye development expenses increased primarily due to higher costs in connection with the VIEW 2 trial in wet AMD, which Bayer HealthCare initiated in 2008. 50 We prepare estimates of research and development costs for projects in clinical development, which include direct costs and allocations of certain costs such as indirect labor, Non-cash Compensation Expense, and manufacturing and other costs related to activities that benefit multiple projects, and, under our collaboration with Bayer HealthCare, the portion of Bayer HealthCare VEGF Trap-Eye development expenses that we are obligated to reimburse. Our estimates of research and development costs for clinical development programs are shown below: Year ended December 31, Increase Project Costs 2008 2007 (Decrease) (In millions) Rilonacept $ 39.2 $ 38.1 $ 1.1 Aflibercept 32.1 33.7 (1.6 ) VEGF Trap-Eye 82.7 53.7 29.0 REGN88 21.4 13.6 7.8 Other research programs & unallocated costs 99.5 63.4 36.1 Total research and development expenses $ 274.9 $ 202.5 $ 72.4 For the reasons described above in Results of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, under the caption Research and Development Expenses , and due to the variability in the costs necessary to develop a product and the uncertainties related to future indications to be studied, the estimated cost and scope of the projects, and our ultimate ability to obtain governmental approval for commercialization, accurate and meaningful estimates of the total cost to bring our product candidates to market are not available. Similarly, we are currently unable to reasonably estimate if our product candidates will generate material product revenues and net cash inflows. In the first quarter of 2008, we received FDA approval for ARCALYST (rilonacept) for the treatment of CAPS, a group of rare, inherited auto-inflammatory diseases. These rare diseases affect a very small group of people. We shipped $10.7 million of ARCALYST to our U.S. distributors in 2008. Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased to $48.9 million in 2008 from $37.9 million in 2007. In 2008, we incurred $5.2 million of selling expenses related to ARCALYST for the treatment of CAPS. General and administrative expenses increased in 2008 due to (i) higher compensation expense primarily resulting from increases in administrative headcount to support our expanded research and development activities, (ii) higher recruitment and related costs associated with expanding our headcount, (iii) higher fees for professional services related to various general corporate matters, and (iv) higher administrative facility-related costs. Cost of Goods Sold During 2008, we began recognizing revenue and cost of goods sold from net product sales of ARCALYST. We began capitalizing inventory costs associated with commercial supplies of ARCALYST subsequent to receipt of marketing approval from the FDA in February 2008. Costs for manufacturing supplies of ARCALYST prior to receipt of FDA approval were recognized as research and development expenses in the period that the costs were incurred. Therefore, these costs are not being included in cost of goods sold when revenue is recognized from the sale of those supplies of ARCALYST. Cost of goods sold in 2008 was $0.9 million and consisted primarily of royalties and other period costs related to ARCALYST commercial supplies. Other Income and Expense Investment income decreased to $18.2 million in 2008 from $20.9 million in 2007, due primarily to lower yields on our cash and marketable securities. In addition, in 2008 and 2007, deterioration in the credit quality of specific marketable securities in our investment portfolio subjected us to the risk of not being able to recover these securities carrying values. As a result, in 2008 and 2007, we recognized charges of $2.5 million and $5.9 million, respectively, related to these securities, which we considered to be other than temporarily impaired. In 2008, these charges were partially offset by realized gains of $1.2 million on sales of marketable securities during the year. 51 Interest expense of $7.8 million and $12.0 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively, was attributable to our 5.5% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due October 17, 2008. During the second and third quarters of 2008, we repurchased a total of $82.5 million in principal amount of these convertible notes for $83.3 million. In connection with these repurchases, we recognized a $0.9 million loss on early extinguishment of debt, representing the premium paid on the notes plus related unamortized debt issuance costs. The remaining $117.5 million of convertible notes were repaid in full upon their maturity in October 2008. Income Tax Expense In the third quarter of 2008, we implemented a tax planning strategy which resulted in the utilization of certain net operating loss carry-forwards, that would otherwise have expired over the next several years, to offset income for tax purposes. As a result, we incurred and paid income tax expense of $3.1 million, which relates to U.S. federal and New York State alternative minimum taxes and included $0.2 million of interest and penalties. This expense was partially offset by a $0.7 million income tax benefit, resulting from a provision in the Housing Assistance Tax Act of 2008 that allowed us to claim a refund for a portion of our unused pre-2006 research tax credits. Revision of Previously Issued Financial Statements The application of FASB authoritative guidance, under certain conditions, can result in the capitalization on a lessee books of a lessor costs of constructing facilities to be leased to the lessee. In mid-2009, we became aware that certain of these conditions were applicable to our December 2006 lease, as amended, of new laboratory and office facilities in Tarrytown, New York. As a result, we are deemed, in substance, to be the owner of the landlord buildings, and the landlord costs of constructing these new facilities were required to be capitalized on our books as a non-cash transaction, offset by a corresponding lease obligation on our balance sheet. In addition, the land element of the lease should have been accounted for as an operating lease; therefore, adjustments to non-cash rent expense previously recognized in connection with these new facilities were also required. Lease payments on these facilities commenced in August 2009. We revised our previously issued financial statements to capitalize the landlord costs of constructing the new Tarrytown facilities which we are leasing and to adjust our previously recognized rent expense in connection with these facilities, as described above. These revisions primarily resulted in an increase to property, plant, and equipment and a corresponding increase in facility lease obligation (a long-term liability) at each balance sheet date. We also revised our statements of operations and statements of cash flows to reflect rent expense in connection with only the land element of our lease, with a corresponding adjustment to other long-term liabilities. As previously disclosed in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended June 30 and September 30, 2009, the above described revisions consisted entirely of non-cash adjustments. They had no impact on our business operations, existing capital resources, or our ability to fund our operating needs, including the preclinical and clinical development of our product candidates. The revisions also had no impact on our previously reported net increases or decreases in cash and cash equivalents in any period and, except for the quarter ended March 31, 2009, had no impact on our previously reported net cash flows from operating activities, investing activities, and financing activities. In addition, these revisions had no impact on our previously reported current assets, current liabilities, and operating revenues. We have not amended previously issued financial statements because, after considering both qualitative and quantitative factors, we determined that the judgment of a reasonable person relying on our previously issued financial statements would not have been changed or influenced by these revisions. 52 For comparative purposes, the impact of the above described revisions to our balance sheet as of December 31, 2008 is as follows: Balance Sheet Impact at December 31, 2008 (In millions) December 31, 2008 As originally reported Property, plant, and equipment, net $ 87.9 Total assets 670.0 Other long-term liabilities 5.1 Total liabilities 251.2 Accumulated deficit (875.9 ) Total stockholders equity 418.8 Total liabilities and stockholders equity 670.0 As revised Property, plant, and equipment, net $ 142.0 Total assets 724.2 Facility lease obligation 54.2 Other long-term liabilities 2.4 Total liabilities 302.7 Accumulated deficit (873.3 ) Total stockholders equity 421.5 Total liabilities and stockholders equity 724.2 For comparative purposes, the impact of the above described revisions to our statements of operations for the period(s) set forth below is as follows: Statements of Operations Impact for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 (In millions, except per share data) December 31, 2008 2007 As originally reported Research and development expenses $ 278.0 $ 201.6 Selling, general, and administrative expenses 49.3 37.9 Total expenses 328.3 239.5 Net loss (82.7 ) (105.6 ) Net loss per share, basic and diluted $ (1.05 ) $ (1.59 ) As revised Research and development expenses $ 274.9 $ 202.5 Selling, general, and administrative expenses 48.9 37.9 Total expenses 324.7 240.4 Net loss (79.1 ) (106.5 ) Net loss per share, basic and diluted $ (1.00 ) $ (1.61 ) These revised amounts are reflected in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009. 53 Liquidity and Capital Resources Since our inception in 1988, we have financed our operations primarily through offerings of our equity securities, a private placement of convertible debt (which was repaid in 2008), purchases of our equity securities by our collaborators, including sanofi-aventis, revenue earned under our past and present research and development agreements, including our agreements with sanofi-aventis and Bayer HealthCare, our past contract manufacturing agreements, and our technology licensing agreements, ARCALYST (rilonacept) product revenue, and investment income. Sources and Uses of Cash for the Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007 At December 31, 2009, we had $390.0 million in cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and marketable securities compared with $527.5 million at December 31, 2008 and $846.3 million at December 31, 2007. Under the terms of our non-exclusive license agreements with AstraZeneca and Astellas, each company made $20.0 million annual, non-refundable payments to us in each of 2009, 2008, and 2007. In July 2009 and August 2007, we received $20.0 million milestone payments from Bayer HealthCare in connection with the dosing of the first patient in a Phase 3 trial of VEGF Trap-Eye in CRVO and wet AMD, respectively. In December 2007, we received an $85.0 million upfront payment in connection with our original antibody collaboration agreement with sanofi-aventis. Sanofi-aventis also purchased 12 million newly issued, unregistered shares of our Common Stock in December 2007 for gross proceeds to us of $312.0 million. Cash (Used in) Provided by Operations Net cash used in operations was $72.2 million in 2009 and $89.1 million in 2008, and net cash provided by operations was $27.4 million in 2007. Our net losses of $67.8 million in 2009, $79.1 million in 2008, and $106.5 million in 2007 included $31.3 million, $32.5 million, and $28.1 million, respectively, of Non-cash Compensation Expense. Our net losses also included depreciation and amortization of $14.2 million, $11.3 million, and $11.5 million in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. At December 31, 2009, accounts receivable increased by $30.4 million, compared to end-of-year 2008, primarily due to a higher receivable balance related to our antibody collaboration with sanofi-aventis. Our deferred revenue balances at December 31, 2009 decreased by $27.5 million, compared to end-of-year 2008, primarily due to the amortization of previously received deferred payments under our collaborations with sanofi-aventis and Bayer HealthCare. Accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other liabilities increased $13.0 million at December 31, 2009, compared to end-of-year 2008, primarily in connection with our expanded levels of activities and expenditures, including higher liabilities for clinical-related expenses, which were partially offset by an $8.6 million decrease in the cost-sharing payment due to Bayer HealthCare in connection with our VEGF Trap-Eye collaboration. At December 31, 2008, accounts receivable increased by $16.9 million, compared to end-of-year 2007, primarily due to a higher receivable balance related to our antibody collaboration with sanofi-aventis. Our deferred revenue balances at December 31, 2008 decreased by $26.8 million, compared to end-of-year 2007, primarily due to the amortization of previously received deferred payments under our collaborations with sanofi-aventis and Bayer HealthCare. This decrease was partially offset by the deferral of $4.0 million of ARCALYST (rilonacept) net product sales at December 31, 2008. At December 31, 2007, accounts receivable increased by $10.8 million, compared to end-of-year 2006, due to higher receivable balances related to our collaborations with sanofi-aventis and Bayer HealthCare. Also, prepaid expenses and other assets increased $9.6 million at December 31, 2007, compared to end-of-year 2006, due primarily to higher prepaid clinical trial costs. Our deferred revenue balances at December 31, 2007 increased by $89.8 million, compared to end-of-year 2006, due primarily to (i) the $85.0 million up-front payment received from sanofi-aventis, (ii) the $20.0 million milestone payment from Bayer HealthCare which was not considered to be substantive for revenue recognition purposes and, therefore, fully deferred, and (iii) the two $20.0 million licensing payments received from each of AstraZeneca and Astellas, all as described above, partly offset by 2007 revenue recognition, principally from amortization of these deferred payments and prior year deferred payments from sanofi-aventis and Bayer HealthCare. Accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other liabilities increased $19.1 million at December 31, 2007, compared to end-of-year 2006, primarily due to a $4.9 million cost-sharing payment due to Bayer HealthCare in connection with the companies VEGF Trap-Eye collaboration and higher accruals in 2007 for payroll costs and clinical-related expenses. 54 The majority of our cash expenditures in 2009, 2008, and 2007 were to fund research and development, primarily related to our clinical programs and our preclinical human monoclonal antibody programs. In 2008 and 2007, we made interest payments totaling $9.3 million and $11.0 million, respectively, on our convertible senior subordinated notes. The convertible notes were repaid in full in 2008. Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities was $146 thousand in 2009 and $30.8 million in 2008, and net cash used in investing activities was $85.7 million in 2007. In 2009 and 2008, sales or maturities of marketable securities exceeded purchases by $97.4 million and $65.7 million, respectively, whereas in 2007, purchases of marketable securities exceeded sales or maturities by $67.3 million. Capital expenditures in 2009 and 2008 included costs in connection with expanding our manufacturing capacity at our Rensselaer, New York facilities and tenant improvements and related costs in connection with our December 2006 Tarrytown, New York lease, as described below. Capital expenditures in 2007 included the purchase of land and a building in Rensselaer for $9.0 million. Cash Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $31.4 million in 2009 and $319.4 million in 2007, respectively, and net cash used in financing activities was $192.9 million in 2008. In 2009, we received a $23.6 million reimbursement of tenant improvements from our landlord in connection with our new Tarrytown facilities, which we are deemed to own in accordance with FASB authoritative guidance. In the second and third quarters of 2008, we repurchased $82.5 million in principal amount of our convertible senior subordinated notes for $83.3 million. The remaining $117.5 million of convertible notes were repaid in full upon their maturity in October 2008. In 2007, sanofi-aventis purchased 12 million newly issued, unregistered shares of our Common Stock for gross proceeds to us of $312.0 million. In addition, proceeds from issuances of Common Stock in connection with exercises of employee stock options were $8.6 million in 2009, $7.9 million in 2008, and $7.6 million in 2007. Fair Value of Marketable Securities At December 31, 2009 and 2008, we held marketable securities whose aggregate fair value totaled $181.3 million and $278.0 million, respectively. The composition of our portfolio of marketable securities on these dates was as follows: 2009 2008 Investment type Fair Value Percent Fair Value Percent U.S. Treasury securities $ 80.4 44 % $ 113.9 41 % U.S. government agency securities 29.6 16 % 58.3 21 % U.S. government-guaranteed corporate bonds 48.7 27 % 29.8 11 % U.S. government guaranteed collateralized mortgage obligations 3.7 2 % 17.4 6 % Corporate bonds 10.3 6 % 37.1 13 % Mortgage-backed securities 3.2 2 % 10.0 4 % Other asset-backed securities 7.8 3 % Other 5.4 3 % 3.7 1 % Total marketable securities $ 181.3 100 % $ 278.0 100 % In addition, at December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had $208.7 million and $249.5 million, respectively, of cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash, primarily held in money market funds that invest in U.S. government securities. During 2009, as marketable securities in our portfolio matured or paid down, we purchased primarily U.S. Treasury securities, U.S. government agency obligations, and U.S. government-guaranteed debt. This shift toward higher quality securities, which we initiated in 2008, reduced the risk profile, as well as the overall yield, of our portfolio during 2009. In particular, we reduced the proportion of mortgage-backed securities in, and eliminated other asset-backed securities from, the portfolio since they had deteriorated in credit quality and declined in value due to higher delinquency rates on the underlying collateral supporting these securities. The mortgage-backed securities that we 55 held at December 31, 2009 are backed by prime and sub-prime residential mortgages and home equity loans. The estimated fair value of our mortgage-backed securities generally ranged from 77% to 99% of par value at December 31, 2009. Our mortgage-backed securities are all senior tranches that are paid-down before other subordinated tranches as the loans in the underlying collateral are repaid. Through December 31, 2009, we continued to receive monthly payments of principal and interest on our mortgage-backed securities holdings. If the monthly principal and interest payments continue at approximately the current rate, we anticipate that all of the mortgage-backed securities in our portfolio will be repaid within the next two years, and most would be repaid in 2010. However, higher delinquency rates in the underlying collateral supporting mortgage-backed securities in our investment portfolio could result in future impairment charges related to these securities, which could be material. We classify our investments using a three-tier fair value hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used in measuring fair value. The three tiers are Level 1, defined as observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets; Level 2, defined as inputs other than quoted prices in active markets that are either directly or indirectly observable; and Level 3, defined as unobservable inputs in which little or no market data exists, therefore requiring an entity to develop its own assumptions. Changes in Level 3 marketable securities during the year ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 were as follows: Level 3 Marketable Securities (In millions) 2009 2008 Balance January 1 $ 0.1 $ 7.9 Settlements (8.2 ) Realized gain 1.1 Impairments (0.1 ) (0.7 ) Balance December 31 $ 0.1 During the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, there were no transfers of marketable securities between Level 2 and Level 3 classifications. Our methods for valuing our marketable securities are described in Note 2 to our financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. With respect to valuations for pricing our Level 2 marketable securities, we consider quantitative and qualitative factors such as financial conditions and near term prospects of the issuer, recommendations of investment advisors, and forecasts of economic, market, or industry trends. For valuations that we determine for our Level 3 marketable securities, we regularly monitor these securities and adjust their valuations as deemed appropriate based on the facts and circumstances. Collaborations with the sanofi-aventis Group Aflibercept In September 2003, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Aventis Pharmaceuticals Inc. (predecessor to sanofi-aventis U.S.) to collaborate on the development and commercialization of aflibercept in all countries other than Japan, where we retained the exclusive right to develop and commercialize aflibercept. Sanofi-aventis made a non-refundable up-front payment of $80.0 million and purchased 2,799,552 newly issued unregistered shares of our Common Stock for $45.0 million. In January 2005, we and sanofi-aventis amended the collaboration agreement to exclude, from the scope of the collaboration, the development and commercialization of aflibercept for intraocular delivery to the eye. In connection with this amendment, sanofi-aventis made a $25.0 million non-refundable payment to us. In December 2005, we and sanofi-aventis amended our collaboration agreement to expand the territory in which the companies are collaborating on the development of aflibercept to include Japan. In connection with this amendment, sanofi-aventis agreed to make a $25.0 million non-refundable up-front payment to us, which was received in January 2006. Under the collaboration agreement, as amended, we and sanofi-aventis will share co-promotion rights and profits on sales, if any, of aflibercept outside of Japan for disease indications included in our collaboration. In Japan, we are entitled to a royalty of approximately 35% on annual sales of aflibercept. We may also receive up to $400 million in milestone payments upon receipt of specified marketing approvals, including up to 56 $360 million in milestone payments related to the receipt of marketing approvals for up to eight aflibercept oncology and other indications in the United States or the European Union and up to $40 million related to the receipt of marketing approvals for up to five aflibercept oncology indications in Japan. We have agreed to manufacture clinical supplies of aflibercept at our plant in Rensselaer, New York. Sanofi-aventis has agreed to be responsible for providing commercial scale manufacturing capacity for aflibercept. Under the collaboration agreement, as amended, agreed upon worldwide aflibercept development expenses incurred by both companies during the term of the agreement, including costs associated with the manufacture of clinical drug supply, will be funded by sanofi-aventis. If the collaboration becomes profitable, we will be obligated to reimburse sanofi-aventis for 50% of these development expenses, including 50% of the $25.0 million payment received in connection with the January 2005 amendment to our collaboration agreement, in accordance with a formula based on the amount of development expenses and our share of the collaboration profits and Japan royalties, or at a faster rate at our option. In addition, if the first commercial sale of an aflibercept product for intraocular delivery to the eye predates the first commercial sale of an aflibercept product under the collaboration by two years, we will begin reimbursing sanofi-aventis for up to $7.5 million of aflibercept development expenses in accordance with a formula until the first commercial aflibercept sale under the collaboration occurs. Since inception of the collaboration agreement through December 31, 2009, we and sanofi-aventis have incurred $598.4 million in agreed upon development expenses related to aflibercept. Currently, multiple clinical studies to evaluate aflibercept as both a single agent and in combination with other therapies in various cancer indications are ongoing. Sanofi-aventis funded $26.6 million, $35.6 million, and $38.3 million, respectively, of our aflibercept development costs in 2009, 2008, and 2007, of which $3.6 million, $6.3 million, and $10.5 million, respectively, were included in accounts receivable as of December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007. In addition, the up-front payments from sanofi-aventis of $80.0 million in September 2003 and $25.0 million in January 2006 were recorded to deferred revenue and are being recognized as contract research and development revenue over the period during which we expect to perform services. In 2009, 2008, and 2007, we recognized $9.9 million, $8.8 million, and $8.8 million of revenue, respectively, related to these up-front payments. Sanofi-aventis has the right to terminate the agreement without cause with at least twelve months advance notice. Upon termination of the agreement for any reason, any remaining obligation to reimburse sanofi-aventis for 50% of aflibercept development expenses will terminate and we will retain all rights to aflibercept. Antibodies In November 2007, we and sanofi-aventis entered into a global, strategic collaboration to discover, develop, and commercialize fully human monoclonal antibodies. The collaboration is governed by a Discovery and Preclinical Development Agreement and a License and Collaboration Agreement. We received a non-refundable up-front payment of $85.0 million from sanofi-aventis under the discovery agreement. In addition, sanofi-aventis is funding research at Regeneron to identify and validate potential drug discovery targets and develop fully human monoclonal antibodies against these targets. Sanofi-aventis funded approximately $175 million of research from the collaboration inception through December 31, 2009. In November 2009, we and sanofi-aventis amended these collaboration agreements to expand and extend our antibody collaboration. Sanofi-aventis will now fund up to $160 million per year of our antibody discovery activities in 2010 through 2017, subject to a one-time option for sanofi-aventis to adjust the maximum reimbursement amount down to $120 million per year commencing in 2014 if over the prior two years certain specified criteria are not satisfied. The discovery agreement will expire on December 31, 2017; however, sanofi-aventis has an option to extend the agreement for up to an additional three years for further antibody development and preclinical activities. For each drug candidate identified under the discovery agreement, sanofi-aventis has the option to license rights to the candidate under the license agreement. If it elects to do so, sanofi-aventis will co-develop the drug candidate with us through product approval. Under the license agreement, agreed upon worldwide development expenses incurred by both companies during the term of the agreement will be funded by sanofi-aventis, except that following receipt of the first positive Phase 3 trial results for a co-developed drug candidate, subsequent Phase 3 trial-related costs for that drug candidate (called Shared Phase 3 Trial Costs) will be shared 80% by sanofi-aventis and 20% by us. If the collaboration becomes profitable, we will be obligated to reimburse sanofi-aventis for 50% of development expenses that were fully funded by sanofi-aventis (or half of $140.2 million as of December 31, 2009) 57 and 30% of Shared Phase 3 Trial Costs, in accordance with a defined formula based on the amounts of these expenses and our share of the collaboration profits from commercialization of collaboration products. However, we are not required to apply more than 10% of our share of the profits from collaboration products in any calendar quarter towards reimbursing sanofi-aventis for these development costs. If sanofi-aventis does not exercise its option to license rights to a particular drug candidate under the license agreement, we will retain the exclusive right to develop and commercialize such drug candidate, and sanofi-aventis will receive a royalty on sales, if any. Sanofi-aventis will lead commercialization activities for products developed under the license agreement, subject to our right to co-promote such products. The parties will equally share profits and losses from sales within the United States. The parties will share profits outside the United States on a sliding scale based on sales starting at 65% (sanofi-aventis)/35% (us) and ending at 55% (sanofi-aventis)/45% (us), and losses outside the United States at 55% (sanofi-aventis)/45% (us). In addition to profit sharing, we are entitled to receive up to $250 million in sales milestone payments, with milestone payments commencing only if and after aggregate annual sales outside the United States exceed $1.0 billion on a rolling 12-month basis. We are obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to supply clinical requirements of each drug candidate under the collaboration until commercial supplies of that drug candidate are being manufactured. In connection with the November 2009 amendment of the collaboration discovery agreement, sanofi-aventis will fund up to $30 million of agreed-upon costs incurred by us to expand our manufacturing capacity at our Rensselaer, New York facilities, of which $0.5 million were included in accounts receivable at December 31, 2009. In 2009, 2008, and 2007, sanofi-aventis funded $99.8 million, $72.2 million, and $3.0 million, respectively, of our expenses under the collaboration discovery agreement and $98.3 million, $25.7 million, and $0.7 million, respectively, of our development costs under the license agreement. Of these amounts, $57.9 million and $25.5 million were included in accounts receivable as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The $85.0 million up-front payment received from sanofi-aventis in December 2007 was recorded to deferred revenue and is being recognized as collaboration revenue over the period during which we expect to perform services. In 2009, 2008, and 2007, we recognized $9.9 million, $10.5 million, and $0.9 million of revenue, respectively, related to this up-front payment. In addition, reimbursements by sanofi-aventis of our costs to expand our manufacturing capacity will be recorded to deferred revenue and recognized prospectively as collaboration revenue over the same period applicable to recognition of the $85.0 million up-front payment, as described above. In connection with the antibody collaboration, in August 2008, we entered into a separate agreement with sanofi-aventis to use our proprietary VelociGene technology platform to supply sanofi-aventis with genetically modified mammalian models of gene function and disease. The agreement provides for minimum annual order quantities for the term of the agreement, which extends through December 2012, for which we expect to receive payments totaling a minimum of $21.5 million, of which $5.1 million had been received as of December 31, 2009. With respect to each antibody product which enters development under the license agreement, sanofi-aventis or we may, by giving twelve months notice, opt-out of further development and/or commercialization of the product, in which event the other party retains exclusive rights to continue the development and/or commercialization of the product. We may also opt-out of the further development of an antibody product if we give notice to sanofi-aventis within thirty days of the date that sanofi-aventis elects to jointly develop such antibody product under the license agreement. Each of the discovery agreement and the license agreement contains other termination provisions, including for material breach by the other party. Prior to December 31, 2017, sanofi-aventis has the right to terminate the discovery agreement without cause with at least three months advance written notice; however, except under defined circumstances, sanofi-aventis would be obligated to immediately pay to us the full amount of unpaid research funding during the remaining term of the research agreement through December 31, 2017. Upon termination of the collaboration in its entirety, our obligation to reimburse sanofi-aventis for development costs out of any future profits from collaboration products will terminate. In December 2007, we sold sanofi-aventis 12 million newly issued, unregistered shares of Common Stock at an aggregate cash price of $312.0 million, or $26.00 per share of Common Stock. As a condition to the closing of this transaction, sanofi-aventis entered into an investor agreement with us. This agreement, which was amended in November 2009, contains certain demand rights, stand-still provisions , and other restrictions, which are more fully described in Note 12 to our Financial Statements. 58 Collaboration with Bayer HealthCare In October 2006, we entered into a license and collaboration agreement with Bayer HealthCare to globally develop, and commercialize outside the United States, VEGF Trap-Eye. Under the terms of the agreement, Bayer HealthCare made a non-refundable up-front payment to us of $75.0 million. In August 2007, we received a $20.0 million milestone payment (which, for the purpose of revenue recognition, was not considered substantive) from Bayer HealthCare following dosing of the first patient in the Phase 3 study of VEGF Trap-Eye in wet AMD. In July 2009, we received a $20.0 million substantive performance milestone payment from Bayer HealthCare following dosing of the first patient in a Phase 3 study of VEGF Trap-Eye in CRVO. We are eligible to receive up to $70 million in additional development and regulatory milestones related to the VEGF Trap-Eye program. We are also eligible to receive up to an additional $135 million in sales milestones if total annual sales of VEGF Trap-Eye outside the United States achieve certain specified levels starting at $200 million. We will share equally with Bayer HealthCare in any future profits arising from the commercialization of VEGF Trap-Eye outside the United States. If VEGF Trap-Eye is granted marketing authorization in a major market country outside the United States and the collaboration becomes profitable, we will be obligated to reimburse Bayer HealthCare out of our share of the collaboration profits for 50% of the agreed upon development expenses that Bayer HealthCare has incurred (or half of $138.4 million at December 31, 2009) in accordance with a formula based on the amount of development expenses that Bayer HealthCare has incurred and our share of the collaboration profits, or at a faster rate at our option. Within the United States, we are responsible for any future commercialization of VEGF Trap-Eye and retain exclusive rights to any future profits from such commercialization in the United States. To date, we and Bayer HealthCare have initiated Phase 3 programs of VEGF Trap-Eye in wet AMD and CRVO and a Phase 2 clinical study in DME. We are also obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to supply clinical and commercial product requirements. The $75.0 million up-front payment and the $20.0 million milestone payment received in August 2007 from Bayer HealthCare were recorded to deferred revenue. In 2009, 2008, and 2007, we recognized $9.9 million, $12.4 million, and $15.9 million, respectively, of revenue related to these deferred payments. The $20.0 million substantive performance milestone payment received from Bayer HealthCare in July 2009 was recognized as revenue in 2009. Under the terms of the agreement, in 2009 and thereafter, all agreed upon VEGF Trap-Eye development expenses incurred by both companies under a global development plan will be shared equally. In 2009, this resulted in a net payment by us of $0.3 million to Bayer HealthCare. In 2008, the first $70.0 million of VEGF Trap-Eye development expenses were shared equally and we were solely responsible for up to the next $30.0 million, which resulted in a net payment by us of $11.3 million to Bayer HealthCare. In 2007, the first $50.0 million of VEGF Trap-Eye development expenses were shared equally and we were solely responsible for up to the next $40.0 million, which resulted in a net reimbursement of $9.4 million from Bayer HealthCare to us. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, accrued expenses included $1.2 million and $9.8 million, respectively, due to Bayer HealthCare. Bayer HealthCare has the right to terminate the agreement without cause with at least six months or twelve months advance notice depending on defined circumstances at the time of termination. In the event of termination of the agreement for any reason, we retain all rights to VEGF Trap-Eye. License Agreements with AstraZeneca and Astellas Under these non-exclusive license agreements, AstraZeneca and Astellas each made $20.0 million annual, non-refundable payments to us in each of 2009, 2008, and 2007. AstraZeneca and Astellas are each required to make up to three additional annual payments of $20.0 million, subject to each licensee ability to terminate its license agreement with us after making the next annual payment in 2010. National Institutes of Health Grant Under our five-year grant from the NIH, as amended, we are entitled to receive a minimum of $25.3 million over the five-year period beginning in September 2006, subject to compliance with the grant terms and annual funding approvals, including $1.5 million to optimize our existing C57BL/6 ES cell line and its proprietary growth medium. In 2009, 2008, and 2007, we recognized $5.5 million, $4.9 million, and $5.5 million, respectively, of 59 revenue related to the NIH Grant, of which $1.2 million and $1.3 million, respectively, was receivable at the end of 2009 and 2008. In 2010, we expect to receive funding of approximately $5.5 million for reimbursement of Regeneron expenses related to the NIH Grant. License Agreement with Cellectis In July 2008, we and Cellectis S.A. entered into an Amended and Restated Non-Exclusive License Agreement. The amended license agreement resolved a dispute between the parties related to the interpretation of a license agreement entered into by the parties in December 2003 pursuant to which we licensed certain patents and patent applications relating to a process for the specific replacement of a copy of a gene in the receiver genome by homologous recombination. Pursuant to the amended license agreement, in July 2008, we made a non-refundable $12.5 million payment to Cellectis and agreed to pay Cellectis a low single-digit royalty based on revenue received by us from any future licenses or sales of our VelociGene or VelocImmune products and services. No royalties are payable with respect to our VelocImmune license agreements with AstraZeneca and Astellas or our antibody collaboration with sanofi-aventis. In addition, no royalties are payable on any revenue from commercial sales of antibodies from our VelocImmune technology. We are amortizing our $12.5 million payment to Cellectis in proportion to past and anticipated future revenues under our license agreements with AstraZeneca and Astellas and our antibody discovery agreement with sanofi-aventis (as amended in November 2009). In 2009 and 2008, we recognized $2.3 million and $2.7 million, respectively, of expense related to the Cellectis agreement. In July 2008, we and Cellectis also entered into a Subscription Agreement pursuant to which we purchased 368,301 ordinary shares of Cellectis in November 2008 at a price of EUR 8.63 per share (which was equivalent to $10.98 at the EUR exchange rate on the date of purchase). Lease Tarrytown, New York Facilities: We lease approximately 537,100 square feet of laboratory and office space at facilities in Tarrytown, New York, under a December 2006 lease agreement, as amended. These facilities include approximately 230,000 square feet of newly constructed space in two new buildings (Buildings A and B) that were completed during the third quarter of 2009 and, under a December 2009 amendment to the lease, approximately 130,900 square feet of additional new space that is under construction in a third new building (Building C), which is expected to be completed in mid-2011. The lease will expire in June 2024 and contains three renewal options to extend the term of the lease by five years each, as well as early termination options on approximately 290,400 square feet of space. The lease provides for monthly payments over its term and additional charges for utilities, taxes, and operating expenses. Certain premises under the lease are accounted for as operating leases. However, for the newly constructed space that we are leasing, we are deemed, in substance, to be the owner of the landlord buildings in accordance with the application of FASB authoritative guidance (as described above under Revision of Previously Issued Financial Statements ), and the landlord costs of constructing these new facilities are required to be capitalized on our books as a non-cash transaction, offset by a corresponding lease obligation on our balance sheet. In connection with the lease, in December 2006, we issued a letter of credit in the amount of $1.6 million to our landlord, which is collateralized by a $1.6 million bank certificate of deposit. In connection with Buildings A and B, we capitalized our landlord costs of constructing these new facilities, which totaled $58.2 million as of December 31, 2009, and recognized a corresponding facility lease obligation of $58.2 million. We also recognized, as an additional facility lease obligation, reimbursements totaling $23.6 million from our landlord during 2009 for tenant improvement costs that we incurred since, under FASB authoritative guidance, these reimbursements from our landlord are deemed to be a financing obligation. Monthly lease payments on these facilities are allocated between the land element of the lease (which is accounted for as an operating lease) and the facility lease obligation, based on the estimated relative fair values of the land and buildings. The imputed interest rate applicable to the facility lease obligation is approximately 11%. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the facility lease obligation balance in connection with these new facilities was $81.0 million and $54.2 million, respectively. 60 In addition, as described above, we amended our lease in December 2009 to include additional new laboratory and office space in Building C that is under construction. As of December 31, 2009, we capitalized $27.8 million of our landlord costs of constructing these new facilities, and recognized a corresponding facility lease obligation of $27.8 million. Monthly lease payments on these facilities will commence in January 2011 and additional charges for utilities, taxes, and operating expenses commenced in January 2010. Rent expense in connection with the land element of these additional facilities, which is accounted for as an operating lease, commenced in December 2009 and is recorded as a deferred liability until lease payments commence in January 2011. In addition, interest expense is imputed at a rate of approximately 9%, and is capitalized and deferred in connection with this facility lease obligation. At December 31, 2009, the facility lease obligation balance in connection with these additional new facilities was $28.0 million. Capital Expenditures Our cash expenditures for property, plant, and equipment totaled $97.3 million in 2009, $34.9 million in 2008, and $18.4 million in 2007. As described above, $23.6 million of tenant improvement costs we incurred in Tarrytown were reimbursed by our landlord in 2009. We expect to incur capital expenditures of approximately $80 to $110 million in 2010 and approximately $40 to $60 million in 2011, primarily in connection with expanding our Rensselaer, New York manufacturing facilities and tenant improvements at our newly leased Tarrytown facilities in Building C. In February 2010, we received $47.5 million from our landlord in connection with tenant improvement costs in Tarrytown. We also expect to be reimbursed for a portion of the capital expenditures for our Rensselaer facilities by sanofi-aventis, with the remaining amount to be funded by our existing capital resources. Funding Requirements Our total expenses for research and development from inception through December 31, 2009 have been approximately $2.0 billion. We have entered into various agreements related to our activities to develop and commercialize product candidates and utilize our technology platforms, including collaboration agreements, such as those with sanofi-aventis and Bayer HealthCare, and agreements to use our Velocigene technology platform. We incurred expenses associated with these agreements, which include reimbursable and non-reimbursable amounts, an allocable portion of general and administrative costs, and cost sharing of a collaborator development expenses, where applicable, of $333.7 million, $230.6 million, and $108.2 million in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. We expect to continue to incur substantial funding requirements primarily for research and development activities (including preclinical and clinical testing). Before taking into account reimbursements from our collaborators, and exclusive of anticipated funding for capital expenditures as described above, we currently anticipate that approximately 65-75% of our expenditures for 2010 will be directed toward the preclinical and clinical development of product candidates, including rilonacept, aflibercept, VEGF Trap-Eye, and clinical stage monoclonal antibodies; approximately 15-25% of our expenditures for 2010 will be applied to our basic research and early preclinical activities; and the remainder of our expenditures for 2010 will be used for the continued development of our novel technology platforms and general corporate purposes. While we expect that funding requirements for our research and development activities will continue to increase in 2010, we also expect that a greater proportion of our research and development expenditures will be reimbursed by our collaborators, especially in connection with our amended and expanded antibody collaboration with sanofi-aventis. In connection with our funding requirements, the following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2009. These obligations and commitments assume non-termination of agreements and represent expected payments based on current operating forecasts, which are subject to change: Payments Due by Period Less than Greater than Total one year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years 5 years (In millions) Operating leases (1) $ 96.2 $ 6.3 $ 11.6 $ 12.4 $ 65.9 Purchase obligations (2) 150.6 112.5 38.1 Other long-term liabilities (3) 205.4 8.2 22.4 26.6 148.2 Total contractual obligations $ 452.2 $ 127.0 $ 72.1 $ 39.0 $ 214.1 61 _______________ (1) Excludes future contingent costs for utilities, real estate taxes, and operating expenses included in our rent. In 2009, these costs were $8.4 million. See Note 11(a) to our Financial Statements. (2) Purchase obligations primarily relate to (i) research and development commitments, including those related to clinical trials, (ii) capital expenditures for equipment acquisitions, and (iii) license payments. Our obligation to pay certain of these amounts may increase or be reduced based on certain future events. Open purchase orders for the acquisition of goods and services in the ordinary course of business are excluded from the table above. (3) Represents payments with respect to facility lease obligations in connection with our lease of facilities in Tarrytown, New York, as described above. See Note 11(a) to our Financial Statements. As described above, in February 2010, we received $47.5 million from our landlord in connection with tenant improvement costs in Tarrytown. As a result, total contractual obligations, as detailed in the table above, will increase (i) from 127.0 million to $130.9 million for the year ending December 31, 2010, (ii) from $72.1 million to $80.0 million for the two-year period beginning January 1, 2011, (iii) from $39.0 million to $47.0 million for the two-year period beginning January 1, 2013, and (iv) from $214.1 million to $251.6 million for the fiscal years beginning January 1, 2015 and thereafter. Under our collaboration with Bayer HealthCare, over the next several years we and Bayer HealthCare will share agreed upon VEGF Trap-Eye development expenses incurred by both companies, under a global development plan, as described above. In addition, under our collaboration agreements with sanofi-aventis and Bayer HealthCare, if the applicable collaboration becomes profitable, we have contingent contractual obligations to reimburse sanofi-aventis and Bayer HealthCare for a defined percentage (generally 50%) of agreed-upon development expenses incurred by sanofi-aventis and Bayer HealthCare, respectively. Profitability under each collaboration will be measured by calculating net sales less agreed-upon expenses. These reimbursements would be deducted from our share of the collaboration profits (and, for our aflibercept collaboration with sanofi-aventis, royalties on product sales in Japan) otherwise payable to us unless we agree to reimburse these expenses at a faster rate at our option. Given the uncertainties related to drug development (including the development of aflibercept and co-developed antibody candidates in collaboration with sanofi-aventis and VEGF Trap-Eye in collaboration with Bayer HealthCare) such as the variability in the length of time necessary to develop a product candidate and the ultimate ability to obtain governmental approval for commercialization, we are currently unable to reliably estimate if our collaborations with sanofi-aventis and Bayer HealthCare will become profitable. The amount we need to fund operations will depend on various factors, including the status of competitive products, the success of our research and development programs, the potential future need to expand our professional and support staff and facilities, the status of patents and other intellectual property rights, the delay or failure of a clinical trial of any of our potential drug candidates, and the continuation, extent, and success of our collaborations with sanofi-aventis and Bayer HealthCare. Clinical trial costs are dependent, among other things, on the size and duration of trials, fees charged for services provided by clinical trial investigators and other third parties, the costs for manufacturing the product candidate for use in the trials, and for supplies, laboratory tests, and other expenses. The amount of funding that will be required for our clinical programs depends upon the results of our research and preclinical programs and early-stage clinical trials, regulatory requirements, the duration and results of clinical trials underway and of additional clinical trials that we decide to initiate, and the various factors that affect the cost of each trial as described above. Currently, we are required to remit royalties on product sales of ARCALYST (rilonacept) for the treatment of CAPS. In the future, if we are able to successfully develop, market, and sell ARCALYST for other indications or certain of our product candidates, we may be required to pay royalties or otherwise share the profits generated on such sales in connection with our collaboration and licensing agreements. We expect that expenses related to the filing, prosecution, defense, and enforcement of patents and other intellectual property will continue to be substantial. We believe that our existing capital resources, including funding we are entitled to receive under our collaboration agreements, will enable us to meet operating needs through at least 2012. However, this is a forward-looking statement based on our current operating plan, and there may be a change in projected revenues or expenses that would lead to our capital being consumed significantly before such time. For example, if we choose to commercialize products that are not licensed to a third party, we could incur substantial pre-marketing and commercialization expenses that 62 could lead us to consume our cash at a faster rate. If there is insufficient capital to fund all of our planned operations and activities, we would expect to prioritize available capital to fund selected preclinical and clinical development programs or license selected products. Other than our operating leases and a $1.6 million letter of credit issued to our landlord in connection with our lease for facilities in Tarrytown, New York, as described above, we have no off-balance sheet arrangements. In addition, we do not guarantee the obligations of any other entity. As of December 31, 2009, we had no established banking arrangements through which we could obtain short-term financing or a line of credit. In the event we need additional financing for the operation of our business, we will consider collaborative arrangements and additional public or private financing, including additional equity financing. Factors influencing the availability of additional financing include our progress in product development, investor perception of our prospects, and the general condition of the financial markets. We may not be able to secure the necessary funding through new collaborative arrangements or additional public or private offerings. If we cannot raise adequate funds to satisfy our capital requirements, we may have to delay, scale-back, or eliminate certain of our research and development activities or future operations. This could materially harm our business. Future Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards In October 2009, the FASB amended its authoritative guidance on multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements. The amended guidance provides greater ability to separate and allocate arrangement consideration in a multiple-element revenue arrangement by requiring the use of estimated selling prices to allocate arrangement consideration, thereby eliminating the use of the residual method of allocation. The amended guidance also requires expanded qualitative and quantitative disclosures surrounding multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements. This guidance may be applied retrospectively or prospectively for new or materially modified arrangements. We are required to adopt this amended guidance effective for the fiscal year beginning January 1, 2011, although earlier adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact that this guidance will have on our financial statements. 
