CIK: 939767
Company Name: EXELIXIS INC 
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2013-02-21
Accession Number: 0000939767-13-000008


ITEM 7. Table of Contents 36 Amount as of December 31, 2008 also included $14.7 million in investments held by Symphony Evolution, Inc. (1) ____________________ ) (56,261 $ ) (163,725 $ ) (228,325 $ 90,632 $ 296,434 $ Total stockholders equity (deficit) ) (954,504 $ ) (1,089,724 $ ) (1,182,054 $ ) (1,106,357 $ ) (1,254,002 $ Accumulated deficit 97,339 $ 57,688 $ 186,702 $ 193,983 $ 342,959 $ Long-term obligations 401,622 $ 343,410 $ 360,790 $ 393,262 $ 721,097 $ Total assets 82,028 $ 22,882 $ ) (16,455 $ 136,500 $ 350,837 $ Working capital (deficit) 284,185 $ 220,993 $ 256,377 $ 283,720 $ 633,961 $ Cash and investments (1) Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: (In thousands) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 December 31, In 2007, we sold 80.1% of our former German subsidiary, Artemis Pharmaceuticals GmbH (now known as TaconicArtemis GmbH), or Artemis, and our plant trait business. We exercised our option to sell our remaining 19.9% ownership in Artemis in 2011 and recognized an additional gain of $2.2 million in other income. In 2008, 2009 and 2010, in association with the sale of our plant trait business, we recognized an additional gain on the sale of the business of $4.5 million, $2.1 million and $7.2 million, respectively. In June 2009, we recorded a $9.8 million loss upon deconsolidation of Symphony Evolution, Inc. as a result of the expiration of our purchase option. In addition, our credit facility with Deerfield expired in November 2009, resulting in our acceleration of interest expense of $5.2 million relating to the closing fee and outstanding warrants issued in connection with the facility. (1) ____________________ 105,498 107,073 108,522 130,479 160,138 Shares used in computing diluted net (loss) income per share 105,498 107,073 108,522 126,018 160,138 Shares used in computing basic net (loss) income per share ) (1.54 $ ) (1.26 $ ) (0.85 $ 0.58 $ ) (0.92 $ Net (loss) income per share, diluted, attributable to Exelixis, Inc. ) (1.54 $ ) (1.26 $ ) (0.85 $ 0.60 $ ) (0.92 $ Net (loss) income per share, basic, attributable to Exelixis, Inc. ) (162,854 $ ) (135,220 $ ) (92,330 $ 75,697 $ ) (147,645 $ Net (loss) income attributable to Exelixis, Inc. 12,716 4,337 Loss attributed to noncontrolling interest ) (175,570 ) (139,557 ) (92,330 75,697 ) (147,645 Consolidated net (loss) income ) (1,286 ) (72 1,295 107 Income tax provision (benefit) ) (175,570 ) (140,843 ) (92,402 76,992 ) (147,538 Consolidated (loss) income before taxes 3,743 ) (18,936 ) (1,005 ) (12,543 ) (25,102 Other income (expense), net (1) ) (179,313 ) (121,907 ) (91,397 89,535 ) (122,436 (Loss) income from operations 297,172 273,666 276,442 200,101 169,886 Total operating expenses 2,890 32,744 10,136 9,171 Restructuring charge 4,582 Collaboration cost sharing 36,892 34,382 33,020 33,129 31,837 General and administrative 257,390 234,702 210,678 156,836 128,878 Research and development Operating expenses: 117,859 $ 151,759 $ 185,045 $ 289,636 $ 47,450 $ Revenues Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: (In thousands, except per share data) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Year Ended December 31, Table of Contents 35 The following selected consolidated financial information has been derived from our audited consolidated financial statements. The financial information as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2012 are derived from audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following Selected Financial Data should be read in conjunction with Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations to be expected in the future. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA ITEM 6. 167 129 115 100 88 100 NASDAQ Biotechnology Index 111 97 99 85 61 100 NASDAQ Market Index 52 55 95 85 60 100 Exelixis, Inc. 12/31/2012 12/31/2011 12/31/2010 12/31/2009 12/31/2008 12/31/2007 The following graph compares, for the five year period ended December 31, 2012, the cumulative total stockholder return for our common stock, the NASDAQ Stock Market (U.S. companies) Index, or the NASDAQ Market Index, and the NASDAQ Biotechnology Index. The graph assumes that $100 was invested on December 31, 2007 in each of our common stock, the NASDAQ Market Index and the NASDAQ Biotechnology Index and assumes reinvestment of any dividends. The stock price performance on the following graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. Table of Contents 34 This performance graph shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of ours under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Performance Graph Since inception, we have not paid dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain all future earnings, if any, for use in our business and currently do not plan to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future determination to pay dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors. Our loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank restricts our ability to pay dividends and make distributions. In addition, our note purchase agreement with Deerfield restricts our ability to make distributions. Dividends , there were approximately 522 holders of record of our common stock. February 14, 2013 As of Holders , the last reported sale price on the NASDAQ Global Select Market for our common stock was $4.71 per share. February 14, 2013 On 4.29 $ 5.39 $ Quarter ended December 28, 2012 4.19 $ 6.95 $ Quarter ended September 28, 2012 4.37 $ 5.59 $ Quarter ended June 29, 2012 4.47 $ 6.57 $ Quarter ended March 30, 2012 Year ended December 28, 2012: 3.94 $ 8.25 $ Quarter ended December 30, 2011 5.45 $ 9.24 $ Quarter ended September 30, 2011 8.03 $ 12.61 $ Quarter ended July 1, 2011 7.10 $ 12.82 $ Quarter ended April 1, 2011 Year ended December 30, 2011: Low High Price Common Stock Our common stock has traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market (formerly the NASDAQ National Market) under the symbol EXEL since April 11, 2000. The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low intraday sales prices for our common stock as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market: MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES ITEM 5. PART II Table of Contents 33 Not applicable. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES ITEM 4. We are not a party to any material legal proceedings. We may from time to time become a party to various legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS ITEM 3. We believe that our leased facilities have sufficient space to accommodate our current needs. A fourth lease covers a portion of one building containing 71,746 square feet that commenced in May 2008 and expires in 2015. We have subleased approximately 68,738 square feet of the building covered by the fourth lease to a single subtenant. The term of the sublease will expire at the end of our lease term. The third lease covering two buildings for a total of 116,063 square feet expires in 2018. The first two leases covering three buildings for a total of 179,964 square feet expire in 2017, with two five-year options to extend their respective terms prior to expiration. We have subleased a total of 57,701 square feet of one of these buildings to three different subtenants. The terms of the subleases covering 55,744 square feet expire at the end of our lease term and the sublease for the balance is for a term of one year with annual options to extend through the end of our lease term. We lease a total of 367,773 square feet of office and laboratory facilities in South San Francisco, California. The leased premises are comprised of six buildings and covered by four lease agreements, as follows: PROPERTIES ITEM 2. Not applicable. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS ITEM 1B. Moreover, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner. advance notice requirements for director nominations and stockholder proposals. limitations on the removal of directors; and the ability of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a poison pill that would work to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our Board of Directors; the inability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; a prohibition on actions by our stockholders by written consent; a classified Board of Directors; Provisions in our corporate charter and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, a change in control, or attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove members of our current Board of Directors. Because our Board of Directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our stockholders to replace current members of our management team. These provisions include: Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent or deter attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. event constitutes a make-whole Fundamental Change, we may be required to increase the conversion rate for holders who convert their 2019 Notes in connection with such make-whole Fundamental Change. In any of these cases, and in other cases, our obligations under the 2019 Notes and the indenture pursuant to which such notes were issued, as well as provisions of our organizational documents and other agreements, could increase the cost of acquiring us or otherwise discourage a third party from acquiring us or removing incumbent management. Table of Contents 32 Certain provisions in the 2019 Notes and the indenture pursuant to which such notes were issued could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. For example, if an acquisition event constitutes a Fundamental Change, holders of the 2019 Notes will have the right to require us to purchase their notes in cash. In addition, if an acquisition Certain provisions in the 2019 Notes and the indenture pursuant to which such notes were issued could delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial takeover or takeover attempt. as the initial debt discount with a corresponding increase to paid-in capital, the equity component, for the 2019 Notes. We will be required to record the amortization of this debt discount over the terms of the 2019 Notes, which may adversely affect our reported or future financial results and the market price of our common stock. In addition, if the 2019 Notes become convertible, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the 2019 Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital. Finally, we expect to use the if-converted method to compute earnings per share, which could be more dilutive than using the treasury stock method. $143.2 million Under Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, Subtopic 470-20, issuers of certain convertible debt instruments that have a net settlement feature and may be settled in cash upon conversion, including partial cash settlement, are required to separately account for the liability (debt) and equity (conversion option) components of the instrument. As a result of the application of ASC 470-20, we recognized The accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash, such as the 2019 Notes, could have a material effect on our reported financial results. A substantial number of shares of our common stock is reserved for issuance upon conversion of the 2019 Notes, upon the exercise of stock options, upon vesting of restricted stock unit awards, upon sales under our employee stock purchase program and upon conversion of the Deerfield Notes. The issuance and sale of substantial amounts of our common stock, including upon conversion of convertible notes, or the perception that such issuances and sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Any market that develops for the 2019 Notes is likely to influence and be influenced by the market for our common stock. For example, the price of our common stock could be affected by possible sales of common stock by investors who view the 2019 Notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company and by hedging or arbitrage trading activity that we expect to occur involving our common stock. Future sales of our common stock or conversion of our convertible notes, or the perception that such sales or conversions may occur, may depress our stock price and adversely impact the trading price of the 2019 Notes. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs and divert management attention and resources, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business. These factors, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Excessive volatility may continue for an extended period of time following the date of this report. general market, economic and political conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. disposition of any of our subsidiaries, technologies or compounds; and third-party reimbursement policies; FDA or international regulatory actions; developments concerning current or future collaborations; departures of key personnel or board members; sales of large blocks of our common stock or sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders; developments in the biotechnology or pharmaceutical industry; financing transactions; changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; failure to achieve operating results projected by securities analysts; litigation, including intellectual property infringement and product liability lawsuits, involving us; conflicts or litigation with our collaborators; agreements; Table of Contents 31 developments in our relationships with our collaborators, including the termination or modification of our quarterly variations in our or our competitors results of operations; the announcement of new products by our competitors; actions taken by regulatory agencies with respect to cabozantinib or our clinical trials for cabozantinib; the timing of achievement of our clinical, regulatory, partnering and other milestones, such as the commencement of clinical development, the completion of a clinical trial, the filing for regulatory approval or the establishment of collaborative arrangements for one or more of our out-licensed programs and compounds; ETRIQ and the revenues we generate; the commercial success of COM announcement of FDA approval or non-approval, or delays in the FDA review process, of cabozantinib or our collaborators product candidates or those of our competitors or actions taken by regulatory agencies with respect to our, our collaborators or our competitors clinical trials; adverse results or delays in our or our collaborators clinical trials; The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile, and we believe the trading price of our common stock will remain highly volatile and may fluctuate substantially due to factors such as the following, many of which we cannot control: Our stock price may be extremely volatile. Due to the possibility of fluctuations in our revenues and expenses, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. As a result, in some future quarters, our operating results may not meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. A large portion of our expenses, including expenses for facilities, equipment and personnel, are relatively fixed in the short term. If we fail to achieve anticipated levels of revenues, whether due to the expiration or termination of existing contracts, our failure to obtain new contracts, our inability to meet milestones or for other reasons, we may not be able to correspondingly reduce our operating expenses, which could significantly harm our operating results for a particular fiscal period. general and industry-specific economic conditions that may affect our collaborators research and development expenditures. the impact of the Restructurings; and the impairment of acquired goodwill and other assets; adjustments to expenses accrued in prior periods based on management estimates after the actual level of activity relating to such expenses becomes more certain; the timing and amount of expenses incurred for clinical development and manufacturing of cabozantinib; the termination or non-renewal of existing collaborations; our ability to enter into new collaborative relationships; the timing and willingness of collaborators to further develop or, if approved, commercialize our product out-licensed to them; the introduction of new technologies or products by our competitors; the success rate of our efforts leading to milestone payments and royalties; acceptance of our technologies and platforms; payments of non-refundable upfront or licensing fees, or payment for cost-sharing expenses, to third parties; recognition of upfront licensing or other fees or revenues; the commercial success of COMETRIQ and the revenues we generate; the progress and scope of our development and commercialization activities; Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. A number of factors, many of which we cannot control, could subject our operating results to volatility, including: We expect that our quarterly results of operations will fluctuate, and this fluctuation could cause our stock price to decline, causing investor losses. Risks Related to Our Common Stock and the 2019 Notes Table of Contents 30 We may be held liable if any product we or our collaborators develop causes injury or is found otherwise unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing or sale. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims could result in decreased demand for our product candidates, injury to our reputation, withdrawal of patients from our clinical trials, substantial monetary awards to trial participants and the inability to commercialize any products that we may develop. These claims might be made directly by consumers, health care providers, pharmaceutical companies or others selling or testing our products. We have obtained limited product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials and commercial activities for cabozantinib in the amount of $15.0 million per occurrence and $15.0 million in the aggregate. However, our insurance may not reimburse us or may not be sufficient to reimburse us for expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, if insurance coverage becomes more expensive, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. On occasion, juries have awarded large judgments in class action lawsuits for claims based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects. In addition, the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, in general, have been subject to significant medical malpractice litigation. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could harm our reputation and business and would decrease our cash reserves. We face potential product liability exposure far in excess of our limited insurance coverage. In addition, our collaborators may use hazardous materials in connection with our collaborative efforts. In the event of a lawsuit or investigation, we could be held responsible for any injury caused to persons or property by exposure to, or release of, these hazardous materials used by these parties. Further, we may be required to indemnify our collaborators against all damages and other liabilities arising out of our development activities or products produced in connection with these collaborations. Our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including chemicals and radioactive and biological materials. Our operations produce hazardous waste products. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from these materials. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials. We may face liability for any injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties of these materials, and such liability may exceed our insurance coverage and our total assets. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development and production efforts. We use hazardous chemicals and radioactive and biological materials in our business. Any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time consuming and costly. Risks Related to Environmental and Product Liability Our network security and data recovery measures may not be adequate to protect against computer viruses, break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. The misappropriation, theft, sabotage or any other type of security breach with respect to any of our proprietary and confidential information that is electronically stored, including research or clinical data, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, any break-in or trespass of our facilities that results in the misappropriation, theft, sabotage or any other type of security breach with respect to our proprietary and confidential information, including research or clinical data, or that results in damage to our research and development equipment and assets could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Security breaches may disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. Our headquarters are located in South San Francisco, California, and therefore our facilities are vulnerable to damage from earthquakes. We do not carry earthquake insurance. We are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, including fire, floods, power loss, communications failures, terrorism and similar events since any insurance we may maintain may not be adequate to cover our losses. If any disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business at our facilities could be seriously, or potentially completely, impaired. In addition, the unique nature of our research activities could cause significant delays in our programs and make it difficult for us to recover from a disaster. Accordingly, an earthquake or other disaster could materially and adversely harm our ability to conduct business. Our headquarters are located near known earthquake fault zones, and the occurrence of an earthquake or other disaster could damage our facilities and equipment, which could harm our operations. Table of Contents 29 We work with scientific and clinical advisors and collaborators at academic and other institutions that assist us in our research and development efforts. These advisors and collaborators are not our employees and may have other commitments that limit their availability to us. Although these advisors and collaborators generally agree not to do competing work, if a conflict of interest between their work for us and their work for another entity arises, we may lose their services. In such a circumstance, we may lose work performed by them, and our development efforts with respect to the matters on which they were working may be significantly delayed or otherwise adversely affected. In addition, although our advisors and collaborators sign agreements not to disclose our confidential information, it is possible that valuable proprietary knowledge may become publicly known through them. Our collaborations with outside scientists may be subject to restriction and change. We are highly dependent upon the principal members of our management and scientific staff, the loss of whose services might adversely impact the achievement of our objectives and the continuation of existing collaborations. Also, we may not have sufficient personnel to execute our business plan. Retaining and, where necessary, recruiting qualified clinical and scientific personnel will be critical to support activities related to advancing our clinical and preclinical development programs, and supporting our collaborative arrangements and our internal proprietary research and development efforts. The Restructurings could have an adverse impact on our ability to retain and recruit qualified personnel. Competition is intense for experienced clinical personnel, and we may be unable to retain or recruit clinical personnel with the expertise or experience necessary to allow us to pursue collaborations, develop our products and core technologies or expand our operations to the extent otherwise possible. Further, all of our employees are employed at will and, therefore, may leave our employment at any time. The loss of key personnel or the inability to retain and, where necessary, attract additional personnel could impair our ability to expand our operations. Risks Related to Employees and Location Many of our employees and independent contractors were previously employed at universities, other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. We may be subject to claims that these employees, independent contractors or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management attention. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying money claims, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research personnel and/or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to commercialize certain product candidates, which could severely harm our business. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we, our employees or independent contractors have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. Third parties may accuse us of employing their proprietary technology without authorization. In addition, third parties may obtain patents that relate to our technologies and claim that use of such technologies infringes on their patents. Regardless of their merit, such claims could require us to incur substantial costs, including the diversion of management and technical personnel, in defending ourselves against any such claims or enforcing our patents. In the event that a successful claim of infringement is brought against us, we may be required to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third parties. We may not be able to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, or at all. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these licenses could adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize products. Our commercial success depends in part upon our ability to avoid infringing patents and proprietary rights of third parties and not to breach any licenses that we have entered into with regard to our technologies. Other parties have filed, and in the future are likely to file, patent applications covering genes and gene fragments, techniques and methodologies relating to model systems and products and technologies that we have developed or intend to develop. If patents covering technologies required by our operations are issued to others, we may have to obtain licenses from third parties, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and may require us to pay substantial royalties, grant a cross-license to some of our patents to another patent holder or redesign the formulation of a product candidate so that we do not infringe third-party patents, which may be impossible to obtain or could require substantial time and expense. Litigation or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to spend substantial time and money and adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize products. Table of Contents 28 The laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. Many countries, including certain countries in Europe, have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled to grant licenses to third parties (for example, the patent owner has failed to work the invention in that country or the third party has patented improvements). In addition, many countries limit the enforceability of patents against government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, the patent owner may have limited remedies, which could materially diminish the value of the patent. Compulsory licensing of life-saving drugs is also becoming increasingly popular in developing countries either through direct legislation or international initiatives. Such compulsory licenses could be extended to include some of our product candidates, which could limit our potential revenue opportunities. Moreover, the legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the aggressive enforcement of patent and other intellectual property protection, which makes it difficult to stop infringement. We rely on trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. We have taken security measures to protect our proprietary information and trade secrets, but these measures may not provide adequate protection. While we seek to protect our proprietary information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators and consultants, we cannot assure you that our proprietary information will not be disclosed, or that we can meaningfully protect our trade secrets. In addition, our competitors may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or may otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Our success will depend in part upon our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of the intellectual property related to our technologies and products. The patent positions of biotechnology companies, including our patent position, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We will be able to protect our intellectual property rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. We will continue to apply for patents covering our technologies and products as and when we deem appropriate. However, these applications may be challenged or may fail to result in issued patents. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that cover the production, manufacture, commercialization or use of our product candidates. Our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patents. In addition, our patents may be challenged or invalidated or may fail to provide us with any competitive advantages, if, for example, others were the first to invent or to file patent applications for these inventions. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, third parties may be able to use our technology, which could adversely affect our ability to compete in the market. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Our strategy includes the pursuit of new collaborations with leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for the development and ultimate commercialization of selected preclinical and clinical programs and compounds, particularly those drug candidates for which we believe that the capabilities and resources of a partner can accelerate development and help to fully realize their therapeutic and commercial potential. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators, and these collaborations are complex and time consuming to negotiate and document. We may not be able to negotiate additional collaborations on acceptable terms, or at all. We are unable to predict when, if ever, we will enter into any additional collaborations because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with establishing additional collaborations. If we are unable to negotiate additional collaborations, we may not be able to realize value from a particular drug candidate, particularly those drug candidates as to which we believe a broad development program is appropriate or for which we have determined not to continue to utilize our own resources to develop. As a result, our revenues, capital resources and product development efforts could be adversely affected. We may be unable to establish collaborations for selected preclinical and clinical compounds. collaboration with Sanofi, which was terminated in December 2011), whether unilaterally or by mutual agreement, our revenues could suffer. Most of our collaboration agreements contain early termination provisions. In addition, from time to time we review and assess certain aspects of our collaborations, partnerships and agreements and may amend or terminate, either by mutual agreement or pursuant to any applicable early termination provisions, such collaborations, partnerships or agreements if we deem them to be no longer in our economic or strategic interests. We may not be able to enter into new collaboration agreements on similar or superior financial terms to offset the loss of revenues from the termination or expiration of any of our existing or recently terminated arrangements. Table of Contents 27 If any of these agreements is terminated early (as occurred with respect to cabozantinib and XL281, which were previously subject to our 2008 collaboration agreement with Bristol-Myers Squibb, and with respect to our 2009 discovery We have derived substantially all of our revenues to date from collaborative research and development agreements. Revenues from research and development collaborations depend upon continuation of the collaborations, the achievement of milestones and royalties we earn from any future products developed from the collaborative research. If we are unable to successfully achieve milestones or royalties, or our collaborators fail to develop successful products, we will not earn the revenues contemplated under such collaborative agreements. If we are unable to continue current collaborations and achieve milestones or royalties, our revenues would suffer. If any of these risks materialize, our product development efforts could be delayed and otherwise adversely affected, which could adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. collaborations may be terminated (as occurred with respect to cabozantinib and XL281, which were previously subject to our 2008 collaboration agreement with Bristol-Myers Squibb, and with respect to our 2009 discovery collaboration with Sanofi, which was terminated in December 2011) or allowed to expire, which would delay, and may increase the cost of development of, our drug candidates. future collaborators may require us to relinquish some important rights, such as marketing and distribution rights; and we may be precluded from entering into additional collaboration arrangements with other parties in an area or field of exclusivity; a collaborator could independently move forward with a competing drug candidate developed either independently or in collaboration with others, including our competitors; business combinations or significant changes in a collaborator business strategy may adversely affect a collaborator willingness or ability to complete its obligations under any arrangement; collaborators may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or may use our proprietary information in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or invalidate our proprietary information or expose us to potential litigation; collaborators may not be successful in their efforts to obtain regulatory approvals in a timely manner, or at all; collaborators may experience financial difficulties; disputes may arise between us and our collaborators that result in the delay or termination of the research, development or commercialization of our drug candidates or that result in costly litigation or arbitration that diverts management attention and resources; collaborators may delay clinical trials, provide insufficient funding for a clinical trial program, stop a clinical trial or abandon a drug candidate, repeat or conduct new clinical trials or require a new formulation of a drug candidate for clinical testing; we are not able to control the amount and timing of resources that our collaborators or potential future collaborators will devote to the development or commercialization of drug candidates or to their marketing and distribution; we may not be able to control the amount of U.S. marketing and commercialization costs for GDC-0973 (XL518) we are obligated to share under our collaboration with Genentech; We have established collaborations with leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including Bristol-Myers Squibb, Sanofi, Genentech, Inc., GlaxoSmithKline, Merck (known as MSD outside of the United States and Canada) and Daiichi Sankyo, for the development and ultimate commercialization of a significant number of compounds generated from our research and development efforts. We continue to pursue collaborations for selected unpartnered preclinical and clinical programs and compounds. Our dependence on our relationships with existing collaborators for the development and commercialization of our compounds subjects us to, and our dependence on future collaborators for development and commercialization of additional compounds will subject us to, a number of risks, including: We are dependent upon our collaborations with major companies, which subjects us to a number of risks. Risks Related to Our Relationships with Third Parties phase 2 clinical trial comparing a lower dose of COMETRIQ in progressive, metastatic MTC and to conduct other clinical studies. These agencies also may impose various civil or criminal sanctions for failure to comply with regulatory requirements, including withdrawal of product approval. Table of Contents 26 Even if the FDA or a comparable authority in another country approves cabozantinib, the approval may impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses, conditions for use, labeling, distribution, advertising, promotion, marketing and/or production of cabozantinib and may impose ongoing requirements for post- approval studies, including additional research and development and clinical trials. For example, in connection with the FDA's approval of COMETRIQ for the treatment of progressive, metastatic MTC, we are subject to the various postmarketing requirements, including a requirement to conduct a In addition, delays or rejections may be encountered based upon changes in regulatory policy for product approval during the period of product development and regulatory agency review. Changes in regulatory approval policy, regulations or statutes or the process for regulatory review during the development or approval periods of cabozantinib may cause delays in the approval or rejection of an application. Any clinical trial may fail to produce results satisfactory to the FDA. For example, the FDA could determine that the design of a clinical trial is inadequate to produce reliable results. The regulatory process also requires preclinical testing, and data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations. The FDA has substantial discretion in the approval process and may refuse to approve any NDA (regardless of prior receipt of a SPA) or decide that our data is insufficient for approval and require additional preclinical, clinical or other studies. For example, varying interpretations of the data obtained from preclinical and clinical testing could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval of cabozantinib. In the context of its consideration of a SPA for the COMET-2 trial, the FDA also recommended that overall survival be the primary efficacy endpoint. The final FDA response prior to our discontinuation of the SPA process stated that we could choose to conduct the trial in the absence of a SPA agreement. We elected to proceed with initiation of the COMET-2 trial and the COMET-1 trial, and to discontinue further attempts to secure a SPA agreement with respect to the COMET-2 trial. We initiated the COMET-2 trial with a pain palliation endpoint in December 2011 and the COMET-1 trial with an overall survival endpoint in May 2012. A recommendation that if we use pain response as a primary efficacy endpoint, that we conduct two adequate and well-controlled trials to demonstrate effectiveness as, according to the FDA, a conclusion based on two persuasive studies will always be more secure. The FDA advised that for a single randomized trial to support an NDA, the trial must be well designed, well conducted, internally consistent and provide statistically persuasive efficacy findings so that a second trial would be ethically or practically impossible to perform. A view that symptomatic improvement should be supported by evidence of anti-tumor activity, an acceptable safety profile and lack of survival decrement. The FDA also expressed the view that if the effect that we believe cabozantinib will have on pain is mediated by anti-tumor activity, that anti-tumor activity should translate into an improvement in overall survival. A view that the assumed magnitude of pain improvement is modest and could represent a placebo effect or be attained with less toxicity by opioid therapy. A concern about the ability to maintain blinding of the trial due to differences in toxicity profiles between cabozantinib and mitoxantrone. In December 2011, we initiated COMET-2, our first phase 3 pivotal trial of cabozantinib in patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer, with pain response as the primary efficacy endpoint for the trial. We were not able to reach a timely agreement with the FDA for a Special Protocol Assessment, or SPA, on the proposed design and analysis of the COMET-2 trial. We originally submitted the proposed protocol for this trial using primary endpoints of pain reduction and bone scan response to the FDA in June 2011 with a request for a SPA. The FDA's final response prior to our discontinuation of the SPA process, which we received in October 2011, raised the following concerns regarding the COMET-2 trial design in the context of its consideration of a SPA for the trial, among other comments: Cabozantinib, as well as the activities associated with its research, development and commercialization, are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the United States and by comparable authorities in other countries. Failure to obtain regulatory approval for cabozantinib would prevent us from promoting its use. We have only limited experience in preparing and filing the applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals is expensive, and often takes many years, if approval is obtained at all, and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidates involved. Before an NDA or NDA supplement can be submitted to the FDA, the product candidate must undergo extensive clinical trials, which can take many years and require substantial expenditures. Cabozantinib is subject to a lengthy and uncertain regulatory process that may not result in the necessary regulatory approvals, which could adversely affect our ability to commercialize cabozantinib. extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize cabozantinib for additional indications beyond progressive, metastatic MTC. Table of Contents 25 We do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials for cabozantinib, including our post-marketing commitments for COMETRIQ for the treatment of progressive, metastatic MTC, and we rely on third parties we do not control such as the federal government (including NCI-CTEP, with whom we have our CRADA), contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories to conduct our clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines, if the third parties need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our preclinical development activities or clinical trials may be If third parties upon which we rely do not perform as contractually required or expected, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize cabozantinib for the treatment of additional indications beyond progressive, metastatic MTC. Any delay could limit our ability to generate revenues, cause us to incur additional expense and cause the market price of our common stock or the 2019 Notes to decline significantly. Our partners under our collaboration agreements may experience similar risks with respect to the compounds we have out-licensed to them. If any of the events described above were to occur with such programs or compounds, the likelihood of receipt of milestones and royalties under such collaboration agreements could decrease. the length of time required to enroll suitable patient subjects. the number of clinical sites included in the trials; and the duration of patient follow-up that is appropriate in view of the results or required by regulatory authorities; the number of patients who ultimately participate in the clinical trial; Completion of clinical trials may take several years or more, but the length of time generally varies substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of cabozantinib. The duration and the cost of clinical trials may vary significantly over the life of a project as a result of factors relating to the clinical trial, including, among others: We have limited experience in conducting clinical trials and may not be able to rapidly or effectively continue the further development of cabozantinib or meet current or future requirements of the FDA, including those identified based on our discussions with the FDA. Our planned clinical trials may not begin on time, or at all, may not be completed on schedule, or at all, may not be sufficient for registration of cabozantinib or may not result in an approvable product. If we were to have significant delays in or termination of our clinical testing of cabozantinib as a result of any of the events described above or otherwise, our expenses could increase or our ability to generate revenues could be impaired, either of which could adversely impact our financial results. regulators or institutional review boards may withhold authorization of, or delay, suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements or their determination that participating patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks. patient registration or enrollment in our clinical testing may be lower than we anticipate, resulting in the delay or cancellation of clinical testing; and our competitors may discover or commercialize other compounds or therapies that show significantly improved safety or efficacy compared to cabozantinib; negative or inconclusive clinical trial results may require us to conduct further testing or to abandon projects that we had expected to be promising; cabozantinib may not prove to be efficacious or may cause, or potentially cause, harmful side effects; We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, clinical testing that could delay or prevent commercialization of cabozantinib for the treatment of CRPC and other indications, including: The results of preliminary studies do not necessarily predict clinical or commercial success, and later-stage clinical trials may fail to confirm the results observed in earlier-stage trials or preliminary studies. Although we have established timelines for manufacturing and clinical development of cabozantinib based on existing knowledge of our compounds in development and industry metrics, we may not be able to meet those timelines. Cabozantinib is being evaluated in comprehensive development program for the treatment of CRPC and a variety of other indications beyond progressive, metastatic MTC. Clinical trials are inherently risky and may reveal that cabozantinib is ineffective or have unacceptable toxicity or other side effects that may significantly decrease the likelihood of regulatory approval in such indications. Clinical testing of cabozantinib is a lengthy, costly, complex and uncertain process and may fail to demonstrate safety and efficacy. Table of Contents 24 Our third-party manufacturers may not be able to comply with the GMP regulations, other applicable FDA regulatory requirements or similar regulations applicable outside of the United States. Additionally, if we are required to enter into new manufacturing or supply arrangements, we may not be able to obtain approval from the FDA of any alternate manufacturer or supplier in a timely manner, or at all, which could delay or prevent the clinical development and commercialization of COMETRIQ. Failure of our third party manufacturers or suppliers or us to obtain approval from the FDA or to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, civil penalties, delays in or failure to grant marketing approval of COMETRIQ, injunctions, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of products and compounds, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could have a significant adverse effect on our business. In addition, COMETRIQ requires precise, high-quality manufacturing. The failure to achieve and maintain these high manufacturing standards, including the incidence of manufacturing errors, could result in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns or other problems that could have also a significant adverse effect on our business. We do not have the manufacturing capabilities or experience necessary to enable us to produce materials for our clinical trials or for commercial sale of COMETRIQ and rely on third party contractors to do so. These third-parties must comply with applicable regulatory requirements, including the FDA's current GMP. Our current and anticipated future dependence upon these third parties may adversely affect our future profit margins and our ability to develop and commercialize COMETRIQ on a timely and competitive basis. These third parties may not be able to produce material on a timely basis or manufacture material at the quality or in the quantity required to meet our development and commercial timelines and applicable regulatory requirements. We may not be able to maintain or renew our existing third party manufacturing and supply arrangements, or enter into new arrangements, on acceptable terms, or at all. Our third party manufacturers and suppliers could terminate or decline to renew our manufacturing and supply arrangements based on their own business priorities, at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us. If we are unable to contract for the production of materials in sufficient quantity and of sufficient quality on acceptable terms, our clinical trials and commercialization efforts may be delayed or otherwise adversely affected. We lack the manufacturing capabilities and experience necessary to enable us to produce COMETRIQ for clinical development or for commercial sale and rely on third parties to do so, which subjects us to various risks. The biotechnology industry is highly fragmented and is characterized by rapid technological change. In particular, the area of kinase-targeted therapies is a rapidly evolving and competitive field. We face, and will continue to face, intense competition from biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, as well as academic research institutions, clinical reference laboratories and government agencies that are pursuing research activities similar to ours. Some of our competitors have entered into collaborations with leading companies within our target markets, including some of our existing collaborators. Some of our competitors are further along in the development of their products than we are. In addition, delays in the development of cabozantinib for the treatment of additional tumor types beyond progressive, metastatic MTC could allow our competitors to bring products to market before us, which would impair our ability to commercialize cabozantinib in such tumor types. Our future success will depend upon our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to technological advances. The markets for which we intend to pursue regulatory approval of cabozantinib are highly competitive. Further, our competitors may be more effective at using their technologies to develop commercial products. Many of the organizations competing with us have greater capital resources, larger research and development staff and facilities, more experience in obtaining regulatory approvals and more extensive product manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to more easily develop technologies and products that would render our technologies and products, and those of our collaborators, obsolete and noncompetitive. There may also be drug candidates of which we are not aware at an earlier stage of development that may compete with cabozantinib. In addition, cabozantinib may compete with existing therapies that have long histories of use, such as chemotherapy and radiation treatments in cancer indications. We believe that the principal competing anti-cancer therapy to COMETRIQ in progressive, metastatic MTC will be AstraZeneca's RET, VEGFR and EGFR inhibitor vandetanib, which has been approved by the FDA in this indication. In addition, we believe that COMETRIQ will also face competition as a treatment for progressive, metastatic MTC from off-label use of Bayer's and Onyx Pharmaceuticals' Raf and VEGFR inhibitor sorafenib, and Pfizer's RTK inhibitor sunitinib. We believe that if cabozantinib is approved for the treatment of CRPC, its principal competition will be Algeta's development-stage alpha-pharmaceutical Alpharadin (Radium-223), Janssen Biotech's CYP17 inhibitor abiraterone, Medivation's androgen receptor inhibitor enzalutamide, and chemotherapeutic agents, including Sanofi's cabazitaxel and docetaxel. Examples of potential competition for cabozantinib in other cancer indications include other VEGF pathway inhibitors, including Genentech's bevacizumab, and other MET inhibitors, including Amgen's AMG 208, Pfizer's crizotinib, ArQule's tivantinib (ARQ197), GlaxoSmithKline's foretinib (XL880), and Genentech's onartuzumab. Our competitors may develop products and technologies that make cabozantinib obsolete. Table of Contents 23 As a result of the PPACA and the trend towards cost-effectiveness criteria and managed healthcare in the United States, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement of new drugs. They may use tiered reimbursement and may adversely affect demand for our products by placing them in an expensive tier. They may also refuse to provide any coverage of uses of approved products for medical indications other than those for which the FDA has granted market approvals. As a result, significant uncertainty exists as to whether and how much third-party payors will reimburse for newly-approved drugs, which in turn will put pressure on the pricing of drugs. Further, we do not have experience in ensuring approval by applicable third-party payors outside of the United States for coverage and reimbursement of COMETRIQ. We also anticipate pricing pressures in connection with the sale of our products due to the trend toward managed healthcare, the increasing influence of health maintenance organizations and additional legislative proposals. We also cannot be certain that COMETRIQ will successfully be placed on the list of drugs covered by particular health plan formularies, nor can we predict the negotiated price for COMETRIQ, which will be determined by market factors. Many states have also created preferred drug lists and include drugs on those lists only when the manufacturers agree to pay a supplemental rebate. If COMETRIQ is not included on these preferred drug lists, physicians may not be inclined to prescribe it to their Medicaid patients, thereby diminishing the potential market for COMETRIQ. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, or collectively, PPACA, became law in the U.S. PPACA substantially changes the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers and significantly affects the pharmaceutical industry. The U.S. Supreme Court heard a constitutional challenge to the PPACA and in June 2012 held that the PPACA is constitutional. However, states are allowed to opt out of the expansion of eligibility criteria for Medicaid under the PPACA. We anticipate that the PPACA, as well as other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, may result in more rigorous coverage criteria and an additional downward pressure on the price that we receive for COMETRIQ and any subsequently approved product, and could seriously harm our business. Any reduction in reimbursement from Medicare or other government programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. Insurers may also refuse to provide any coverage of uses of approved products for medical indications other than those for which the FDA has granted market approvals. As a result, significant uncertainty exists as to whether and how much third-party payors will reimburse for newly-approved drugs, which in turn will put pressure on the pricing of drugs. The U.S. and some foreign jurisdictions are considering or have enacted a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could affect our ability to sell COMETRIQ profitably. Among policy makers and payors in the U.S. and elsewhere, there is significant interest in promoting changes in healthcare systems with the stated goals of containing healthcare costs, improving quality and/or expanding access. In the U.S., the pharmaceutical industry has been a particular focus of these efforts and has been significantly affected by major legislative initiatives. Current healthcare laws and regulations and future legislative or regulatory reforms to the healthcare system may affect our ability to sell COMETRIQ profitably. In addition, in some foreign countries, particularly the countries in the European Union, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In these countries, price negotiations with governmental authorities can take six to twelve months or longer after the receipt of regulatory marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement and/or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost effectiveness of COMETRIQ to other available therapies. The conduct of such a clinical trial could be expensive and result in delays in the commercialization of COMETRIQ. Third-party payors are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services, and many third-party payors limit reimbursement for newly approved health care products. In particular, third-party payors may limit the indications for which they will reimburse patients who use COMETRIQ. Cost-control initiatives could decrease the price we might establish for COMETRIQ, which would result in lower product revenues to us. Our ability to successfully commercialize COMETRIQ will be highly dependent on the extent to which coverage and reimbursement for the product candidate will be available from third-party payors, including governmental payors, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and private health insurers. Many patients will not be capable of paying for COMETRIQ themselves and will rely on third-party payors to pay for, or subsidize, their medical needs. If third-party payors do not provide coverage or reimbursement for COMETRIQ, our revenues and prospects for profitability will suffer. In addition, even if third-party payors provide some coverage or reimbursement for COMETRIQ, the availability of such coverage or reimbursement for prescription drugs under private health insurance and managed care plans often varies based on the type of contract or plan purchased. If we are unable to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors for COMETRIQ, our revenues and prospects for profitability will suffer. imprisonment, any of which could adversely affect our ability to sell COMETRIQ or operate our business and also adversely affect our financial results. Table of Contents 22 In addition, certain marketing practices, including off-label promotion, may also violate false claims laws. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, withdrawal of regulatory approval, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, the exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs and state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers, and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating efforts. federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters; and federal civil and criminal false claims laws and civil monetary penalty laws, which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent; the federal healthcare programs' Anti-Kickback Law, which constrains our marketing practices, educational programs, pricing policies, and relationships with healthcare providers or other entities, by prohibiting, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; the federal HIPAA as amended by the HITECH and its implementing regulations, which imposes certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; We are subject to certain healthcare laws and regulations and enforcement by the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. The laws that may affect our ability to operate include: We are subject to certain healthcare laws, regulation and enforcement; our failure to comply with those laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We currently rely on a single third party logistics provider to handle shipping and warehousing of our commercial supply of COMETRIQ and a single specialty pharmacy to dispense COMETRIQ to patients in fulfillment of prescriptions. Our current and anticipated future dependence upon these third parties may adversely affect our future profit margins and our ability to supply COMETRIQ to the marketplace on a timely and competitive basis. For example, if our third party logistics provider's warehouse suffers a fire or damage from another type of disaster, the commercial supply of COMETRIQ could be destroyed, resulting in a disruption in our commercialization efforts. These third parties may not be able to provide services in the time we require to meet our commercial timelines and objectives or to meet regulatory requirements. We may not be able to maintain or renew our arrangements with these third parties, or enter into new arrangements, on acceptable terms, or at all. These third parties could terminate or decline to renew our arrangements based on their own business priorities, at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us. If we are unable to contract for logistics services or distribution of COMETRIQ on acceptable terms, our commercialization efforts may be delayed or otherwise adversely affected. We have no experience as a company in the sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products. We have established a small commercial organization so that it is commensurate with the size of the market opportunity for progressive, metastatic MTC. We have also designed our commercial organization to maintain the maximum amount of flexibility, and to enable us to quickly scale up if additional indications are approved in the future. We believe we have created an efficient commercial organization, taking advantage of outsourcing options where prudent to maximize the effectiveness of our commercial expenditures. However, we may not be able to correctly judge the size and experience of the sales and marketing force and the scale of distribution necessary to successfully market and sell COMETRIQ. Establishing and maintaining, sales, marketing and distribution capabilities are expensive and time-consuming. Such expenses may be disproportional compared to the revenues we may be able to generate on sales of COMETRIQ and have an adverse impact on our results of operations. If we are unable to establish and maintain adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, independently or with others, we may not be able to generate product revenues and our business may be adversely affected. If we are unable to establish and maintain adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or enter into or maintain agreements with third parties to do so, we may be unable to successfully commercialize COMETRIQ. sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. the strength of sales, marketing and distribution support; and relative convenience and ease of administration; the ability to offer COMETRIQ for sale at competitive prices; Table of Contents 21 indications for which COMETRIQ is approved; the timing of market entry relative to competitive treatments; potential advantages or disadvantages in relation to alternative treatments; the existence of any significant side effects of COMETRIQ, as well as their severity in comparison to those of any competing products; the effectiveness, or perceived effectiveness, of COMETRIQ in comparison to competing products; Our ability to commercialize COMETRIQ for the treatment of progressive, metastatic MTC and potentially other indications if approved will be highly dependent upon the extent to which COMETRIQ gains market acceptance among: physicians; patients; health care payors, such as Medicare and Medicaid; and the medical community. If COMETRIQ does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, we may not generate adequate product revenues, if at all, and we may not become profitable. The degree of market acceptance of COMETRIQ will depend upon a number of factors, including: The commercial success of COMETRIQ will depend upon the degree of market acceptance of COMETRIQ among physicians, patients, health care payors, and the medical community. The success of our business is dependent upon the successful development and commercialization of COMETRIQ. As part of our strategy, we are dedicating all of our proprietary resources to advance COMETRIQ as aggressively as feasible. On November 29, 2012, the FDA approved COMETRIQ for the treatment of progressive, metastatic MTC in the United States and we commercially launched COMETRIQ in January 2013. We view the approval of COMETRIQ for the treatment of progressive, metastatic MTC as a transitional event towards our objective of developing COMETRIQ into a major oncology franchise. Our ability to realize this objective or the value of our investment is contingent on, among other things, successful clinical development, regulatory approval and market acceptance of COMETRIQ. If we encounter difficulties in the development of COMETRIQ in other indications beyond progressive, metastatic MTC due to any of the factors discussed in this Risk Factors section or otherwise, or we do not receive regulatory approval in such indications or are unable to successfully commercialize COMETRIQ in progressive, metastatic MTC or such other indications if approved, we will not have the resources necessary to continue our business in its current form. We are dependent on the successful development and commercialization of COMETRIQ. Risks Related to COMETRIQ (cabozantinib) Our cash and cash equivalents are maintained in highly liquid investments with remaining maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. Our short-term and long-term investments consist primarily of readily marketable debt securities with remaining maturities of more than 90 days at the time of purchase. While as of the date of this report we are not aware of any downgrades, material losses, or other significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash equivalents, short-term investments or long-term investments since December 31, 2012, no assurance can be given that a deterioration in conditions of the global credit and financial markets would not negatively impact our current portfolio of cash equivalents or investments or our ability to meet our financing objectives. Global credit and financial market conditions could negatively impact the value of our current portfolio of cash equivalents, short-term investments or long-term investments and our ability to meet our financing objectives. Most of our foreign expenses incurred are associated with establishing and conducting clinical trials for cabozantinib. The amount of expenses incurred will be impacted by fluctuations in the currencies of those countries in which we conduct clinical trials. Our agreements with the foreign sites that conduct such clinical trials generally provide that payments for the services provided will be calculated in the currency of that country, and converted into U.S. dollars using various exchange rates based upon when services are rendered or the timing of invoices. When the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the U.S. dollar value of the foreign-currency denominated expense increases, and when the U.S. dollar strengthens against these currencies, the U.S. dollar value of the foreign-currency denominated expense decreases. Consequently, changes in exchange rates may affect our financial position and results of operations. We are exposed to risks related to foreign currency exchange rates. If we experience excessive unanticipated inefficiencies or incremental costs in connection with restructuring activities, such as unanticipated inefficiencies caused by reducing headcount, we may be unable to meaningfully realize cost savings and we may incur expenses in excess of what we anticipate. Either of these outcomes could prevent us from meeting our strategic objectives and could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. rates. If we are able to vacate portions of our facilities, we would need to continue to update our estimate of the lease exit costs in our financial statements until we were able to negotiate an exit to the lease or negotiate a sublease for the remaining term of the lease. Table of Contents 20 As part of the Restructurings, we have entered into sublease agreements for certain of our facilities in South San Francisco, California. We are still assessing our ability to sublease portions of our facilities in light of the workforce reductions as well as the potential for sublease income. Estimates for sublease income would require significant assumptions regarding the time required to contract with subtenants, the amount of idle space we would be able to sublease and potential future sublease in connection with the Restructurings and anticipate that we will incur additional restructuring charges related to the exit of all or portions of three of our South San Francisco buildings. These charges will be recorded through the end of the building lease terms, the last of which ends in 2017. $52.1 million employees. We have recorded aggregate restructuring charges of 422 and May 2012, resulting in further reductions to our workforce. The aggregate reduction in headcount from the 2010, 2011 and 2012 restructurings, or Restructurings, is March 2011 employees as a consequence of our decision to focus our proprietary resources and development efforts on the late-stage development and commercialization of cabozantinib. We implemented additional restructurings in both 386 Managing costs is a key element of our business strategy. Consistent with this element of our strategy, we implemented restructurings in March 2010 and December 2010 that resulted in an overall reduction in our workforce by We may not realize the expected benefits of our initiatives to control costs. If a Fundamental Change occurs, holders of the 2019 Notes may require us to purchase for cash all or any portion of their 2019 Notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be purchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding, the Fundamental Change purchase date. We may not have sufficient funds to purchase the notes upon a Fundamental Change. In addition, the terms of any borrowing agreements which we may enter into from time to time may require early repayment of borrowings under circumstances similar to those constituting a Fundamental Change. These agreements may also make our repurchase of 2019 Notes an event of default under the agreements We cannot assure you that we will continue to maintain sufficient cash reserves or that our business will continue to generate cash flow from operations at levels sufficient to permit us to pay principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, or that our cash needs will not increase. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments, or if we fail to comply with the various requirements of the 2019 Notes, the Deerfield Notes, our loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank, or any indebtedness which we have incurred or may incur in the future, we would be in default, which would permit the holders or the Trustee of the 2019 Notes or other indebtedness to accelerate the maturity of such notes or other indebtedness and could cause defaults under the 2019 Notes, the Deerfield Notes, our loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank or our other indebtedness. Any default under the 2019 Notes, the Deerfield Notes, our loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank, or any indebtedness that we have incurred or may incur in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage with less leveraged competitors and competitors that may have better access to capital resources. dilution experienced by our existing stockholders as a result of the conversion of the 2019 Notes or the Deerfield Notes into shares of common stock; and preventing us from raising funds necessary to purchase the 2019 Notes in the event we are required to do so following a "Fundamental Change" as specified in the indenture governing the 2019 Notes, or to settle conversions of the 2019 Notes in cash; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of our cash flow available for other purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; subjecting us to the risk of increased sensitivity to interest rate increases on our indebtedness with variable interest rates, including borrowings under our loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; resulting in an event of default if we fail to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in our debt agreements, which event of default could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable; making it more difficult for us to meet our payment and other obligations under the 2019 Notes, the Deerfield Notes, our loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank or our other indebtedness; Our indebtedness could have significant negative consequences for our business, results of operations and financial condition, including: Table of Contents 19 We incurred significant additional indebtedness and substantial debt service requirements as a result of our offering of the 2019 Notes in August 2012. As of December 31, 2012, our total consolidated indebtedness through maturity was $496.8 million (excluding trade payables). We may also incur additional indebtedness to meet future financing needs. If we raise additional indebtedness, it would increase our interest expense, leverage and operating and financial costs. could limit cash flow available for our operations and expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our significant level of indebtedness . As of December 31, 2012, we had not generated revenues from the sale of COMETRIQ, which was commercially launched for the treatment of progressive, metastatic MTC in the United States in January 2013. We have derived substantially all of our revenues to date from collaborative research and development agreements. Revenues from research and development collaborations depend upon continuation of the collaborations, research funding, the achievement of milestones and royalties we earn from any future products developed from the collaborative research. If we are unable to successfully achieve milestones, our collaborators fail to develop successful products or research funding we receive from collaborators decreases, we will not earn the revenues contemplated under such collaborative agreements. The amount of our net losses will depend, in part, on the rate of growth, if any, in our sales of COMETRIQ for progressive, metastatic MTC, license and contract revenues and on the level of our expenses. These losses have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders' equity and working capital. Our research and development expenditures and general and administrative expenses have exceeded our revenues for each year other than 2011, and we expect to spend significant additional amounts to fund the continued development of cabozantinib. As a result, we expect to continue to incur substantial operating expenses, and, consequently, we will need to generate significant additional revenues to achieve future profitability. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing drugs, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if at all. $1.3 billion ; as of December 31, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of $147.6 million , with the exception of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011. In 2011, we had net income primarily as a result of the acceleration of revenue recognized under our 2008 collaboration agreement with Bristol-Myers Squibb that terminated in October 2011 and under our 2009 discovery collaboration agreement with Sanofi that terminated in December 2011. We anticipate net losses and negative operating cash flow for the foreseeable future. For the year ended December 31, 2012, we had a net loss of December 31, 2012 We have incurred net losses since inception through the year ended We have a history of net losses. We expect to continue to incur net losses, and we may not achieve or maintain profitability. We may need to obtain additional funding in order to stay in compliance with financial covenants contained in our loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank. The terms of the agreement contains covenants or events of default requiring us to maintain specified collateral balances. The failure to comply with these covenants could result in an acceleration of the underlying debt obligations. If we are unable to remain in compliance with such covenants or if we are unable to renegotiate such covenants and the lender exercises its remedies under the agreement, we would not be able to operate under our current operating plan. We may seek to raise funds through the sale of equity or debt securities or through external borrowings. In addition, we may enter into additional strategic partnerships, collaborative arrangements or other strategic transactions. It is unclear whether any such partnership, arrangement or transaction will occur, on satisfactory terms or at all, or what the timing and nature of such a partnership, arrangement or transaction may be. The sale of equity or convertible debt securities in the future may be dilutive to our stockholders, and debt-financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain assets and enter into covenants that would restrict certain business activities or our ability to incur further indebtedness, and may contain other terms that are not favorable to our stockholders or us. If we are unable to obtain adequate funds on reasonable terms, we may be required to curtail operations significantly or obtain funds by entering into financing, supply or collaboration agreements on unattractive terms or we may be required to relinquish rights to technology or product candidates or to grant licenses on terms that are unfavorable to us. the cost of any acquisitions of or investments in businesses, products and technologies. the filing, maintenance, prosecution, defense and enforcement of patent claims and other intellectual property rights; and the effect of competing technological and market developments; our ability to share the costs of our clinical development efforts with third parties; our obligation to share U.S. marketing and commercialization costs for GDC-0973 (XL518) under our collaboration with Genentech; the cost of clinical and research supplies of our product candidates; the cost and timing of regulatory approvals; Table of Contents 18 our need to expand our product and clinical development efforts; future clinical trial results; the amount of our cash and cash equivalents, short- and long-term investments that serve as collateral for bank lines of credit; our ability to remain in compliance with, or amend or cause to be waived, financial covenants contained in agreements with third parties; our ability to control costs; whether we enter into new collaboration agreements, licensing agreements or other arrangements (including, in particular, with respect to COMETRIQ) that provide additional capital; the degree to which we conduct funded development activity on behalf of partners to whom we have out-licensed compounds or programs; the level of payments received under existing collaboration agreements, licensing agreements and other arrangements; the commercial success of COMETRIQ and the revenues we generate; ; $85.3 million repayment of our term loan and line of credit from Silicon Valley Bank, which had an outstanding balance at December 31, 2012 of repayment of the $124.0 million initial principal amount of our Secured Convertible Notes due June 2015 issued to entities affiliated with Deerfield Management Company, L.P., or the Deerfield Notes, for which we will be required to make mandatory prepayments on an annual basis in 2014 and 2015 equal to 15% of specified payments from our collaborative arrangements received during the prior fiscal year, subject to a maximum annual prepayment amount of $27.5 million and, for the payment due in January 2014, a required minimum prepayment amount of $10.0 million, unless we are able to repay them with our common stock, which we are only able to do under specified conditions; aggregate principal amount of 4.25% convertible senior subordinated notes due 2019, or the 2019 Notes, that mature on August 15, 2019, unless earlier converted, redeemed or repurchased; $287.5 million repayment of our the progress and scope of the development and commercialization activities with respect to COMETRIQ (cabozantinib); that we are required to maintain on deposit with Silicon Valley Bank or one of its affiliates pursuant to covenants in our loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank. We anticipate that our current cash and cash equivalents, short- and long-term investments and funding that we expect to receive from existing collaborators will enable us to maintain our operations for a period of at least 12 months following the end of 2012. However, our future capital requirements will be substantial, and we may need to raise additional capital in the future. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, and we may need to use available capital resources and raise additional capital significantly earlier than we currently anticipate. These factors include: $83.7 million and $3.2 million and short- and long-term unrestricted investments of $28.0 million and $12.2 million in cash and investments, which included short- and long-term restricted cash and investments of $634.0 million As of December 31, 2012, we had commercialize our product candidates, if any such candidates receive regulatory approval for commercial sale. continue our research and development efforts; and fund our operations and clinical trials; We may need to raise additional capital to: If additional capital is not available to us, we may be forced to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts and we may breach our financial covenants. Risks Related to Our Need for Additional Financing and Our Financial Results In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report and our other reports filed with the SEC, the following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks or such other risks actually occurs, our business could be harmed. RISK FACTORS ITEM 1A. Table of Contents 17 We maintain a site on the worldwide web at www.exelixis.com; however, information found on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report. We make available free of charge on or through our website our Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, filings, including our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Further, copies of our filings with the SEC are available at the SEC Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a site on the worldwide web that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding our filings at www.sec.gov. We were incorporated in Delaware in November 1994 as Exelixis Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and we changed our name to Exelixis, Inc. in February 2000. Available Information As of December 31, 2012, we had 174 full-time employees worldwide, 59 of whom held Ph.D. and/or M.D. degrees, most of whom were engaged in full-time research and development activities. None of our employees are represented by a labor union, and we consider our employee relations to be good. Employees In the future, third parties may file claims asserting that our technologies or products infringe on their intellectual property. We cannot predict whether third parties will assert such claims against us or against the licensors of technology licensed to us, or whether those claims will harm our business. If we are forced to defend ourselves against such claims, whether they are with or without merit and whether they are resolved in favor of, or against, our licensors or us, we may face costly litigation and the diversion of management attention and resources. As a result of such disputes, we may have to develop costly non-infringing technology or enter into licensing agreements. These agreements, if necessary, may be unavailable on terms acceptable to us, or at all. While trade secret protection is an essential element of our business and we have taken security measures to protect our proprietary information and trade secrets, we cannot give assurance that our unpatented proprietary technology will afford us significant commercial protection. We seek to protect our trade secrets by entering into confidentiality agreements with third parties, employees and consultants. Our employees and consultants are also required to sign agreements obligating them to assign to us their interests in intellectual property arising from their work for us. All employees sign an agreement not to engage in any conflicting employment or activity during their employment with us and not to disclose or misuse our confidential information. However, it is possible that these agreements may be breached or invalidated, and if so, there may not be an adequate corrective remedy available. Accordingly, we cannot ensure that employees, consultants or third parties will not breach the confidentiality provisions in our contracts, infringe or misappropriate our trade secrets and other proprietary rights or that measures we are taking to protect our proprietary rights will be adequate. We have obtained licenses from various parties that give us rights to technologies that we deem to be necessary or desirable for our research and development. These licenses (both exclusive and non-exclusive) may require us to pay royalties as well as upfront and milestone payments. We have pending patent applications in the United States and European Union covering the composition-of-matter of our other drug candidates in clinical or preclinical development which, if issued, are anticipated to expire between 2023 and 2030. matter of cabozantinib and pharmaceutical compositions thereof. Cabozantinib is also covered by an additional issued patent in the United States (covering certain methods of use) and also by an issued patent in Europe (covering cabozantinib composition-of-matter and certain methods of use). These issued patents will expire in September 2024, subject to any available extensions. Foreign counterparts of the issued U.S. and European patents are pending in Australia, Japan and Canada, which, if issued, are anticipated to expire in 2024. We have patent applications pending in the United States, European Union, Australia, Japan and Canada covering certain synthetic methods related to making cabozantinib, which, if issued, are anticipated to expire in 2024. We have filed patent applications in the United States and other selected countries covering certain salts, polymorphs and formulations of cabozantinib which, if issued, are anticipated to expire in approximately 2030. We have filed several patent applications in the United States and other selected countries relating to combinations of cabozantinib with certain other anti-cancer agents which, if issued, are anticipated to expire in approximately 2030. Table of Contents 16 Cabozantinib is covered by an issued patent in the United States (U.S. Pat. No. 7,579,473) for the composition-of- We actively seek patent protection in the United States, the European Union, and selected other foreign countries to cover our drug candidates and related technologies. Patents extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. The actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends on the type of patent, the scope of its coverage and the availability of legal remedies in the country. We have numerous patents and pending patent applications that relate to methods of screening drug targets, compounds that modulate drug targets, as well as methods of making and using such compounds. While many patent applications have been filed relating to the drug candidates that we have developed, the majority of these are not yet issued or allowed. Patents and Proprietary Rights of our revenues from Bristol-Myers Squibb, Merck and Daiichi Sankyo, respectively. We operate in one operating segment and have operations solely in the United States. Information regarding total revenues, net loss and total assets is set forth in our financial statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 12% and 22% , 66% In 2012, we derived Revenues from Significant Collaborators for the year ended December 31, 2010. $210.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 and $156.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to $128.9 million Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel expenses, laboratory supplies, consulting and facilities costs. Research and development expenses were Research and Development Expenses The markets for which we intend to pursue regulatory approval of cabozantinib are highly competitive. We are aware of products in research or development by our competitors that are intended to treat all of the tumor types we are targeting, and any of these products may compete with cabozantinib. Our competitors may succeed in developing their products before we do, obtaining approvals from the FDA or other regulatory agencies for their products more rapidly than we do, or developing products that are more effective than cabozantinib. These products or technologies might render our technology obsolete or noncompetitive. There may also be drug candidates of which we are not aware at an earlier stage of development that may compete with cabozantinib. In addition, cabozantinib may compete with existing therapies that have long histories of use, such as chemotherapy and radiation treatments in cancer indications. We believe that the principal competing anti-cancer therapy to COMETRIQ in progressive, metastatic MTC will be AstraZeneca's RET, VEGFR and EGFR inhibitor vandetanib, which has been approved by the FDA in this indication. In addition, we believe that COMETRIQ will also face competition as a treatment for progressive, metastatic MTC from off-label use of Bayer's and Onyx Pharmaceuticals' Raf and VEGFR inhibitor sorafenib, and Pfizer's RTK inhibitor sunitinib. We believe that if cabozantinib is approved for the treatment of CRPC, its principal competition will be Algeta's development-stage alpha-pharmaceutical Alpharadin (Radium-223), Janssen Biotech's CYP17 inhibitor abiraterone, Medivation's androgen receptor inhibitor enzalutamide, and chemotherapeutic agents, including Sanofi's cabazitaxel and docetaxel. Examples of potential competition for cabozantinib in other cancer indications include other VEGF pathway inhibitors, including Genentech's bevacizumab, and other MET inhibitors, including Amgen's AMG 208, Pfizer's crizotinib, ArQule's tivantinib (ARQ197), GlaxoSmithKline's foretinib (XL880), and Genentech's onartuzumab. We anticipate that COMETRIQ in progressive, metastatic MTC will, and cabozantinib in other indications if approved would, compete with any of these competing treatments on the basis of the factors described above. We believe that the quality and breadth of activity observed with cabozantinib, the skill of our employees and our ability to recruit and retain skilled employees, our patent portfolio and our capabilities for research and drug development are competitive strengths. However, many large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have significantly larger intellectual property estates than we do, more substantial capital resources than we have, and greater capabilities and experience than we do in preclinical and clinical development, sales, marketing, manufacturing and regulatory affairs. the availability of substantial capital resources to fund development and commercialization activities. protection of our intellectual property; and skills of our employees and our ability to recruit and retain skilled employees; quality and breadth of our technology; product acceptance by physicians and other health care providers; our ability to successfully commercialize cabozantinib and secure reimbursement in approved indications; our ability to manufacture and sell commercial quantities of cabozantinib to the market; Table of Contents 15 our ability to complete preclinical testing and clinical development and obtain regulatory approvals for cabozantinib; the speed at which we develop cabozantinib for the treatment of additional tumor types beyond progressive, metastatic MTC; timing and scope of regulatory approval; efficacy, safety and reliability of cabozantinib; We believe that our ability to successfully compete will depend on, among other things: There are many companies focused on the development of small molecules and antibodies for cancer. Our potential competitors include major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as academic research institutions, clinical reference laboratories and government agencies that are pursuing research activities similar to ours. Many of our potential competitors have significantly more financial, technical and other resources than we do, which may allow them to have a competitive advantage. Competition In addition, in some non-U.S. jurisdictions, the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. The requirements governing drug pricing vary widely from country to country. For example, the European Union provides options for its member states to restrict the range of medicinal products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. A member state may approve a specific price for the medicinal product or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the medicinal product on the market. There can be no assurance that any country that has price controls or reimbursement limitations for pharmaceutical products will allow favorable reimbursement and pricing arrangements for any of our products. Historically, products launched in the European Union do not follow price structures of the United States and generally tend to be significantly lower. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010, collectively referred to as the ACA, enacted in March 2010, is expected to have a significant impact on the health care industry. ACA is expected to expand coverage for the uninsured while at the same time containing overall healthcare costs. With regard to pharmaceutical products, ACA is expected to, among other things, expand and increase industry rebates for drugs covered under Medicaid programs and make changes to the coverage requirements under the Medicare Part D program. We cannot predict the full impact of ACA on our operations, as many of ACA's reforms require the promulgation of detailed regulations implementing the statutory provisions, which has not yet occurred. In June 2012, the U.S. Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of ACA, except that the Court held unconstitutional the provision of ACA authorizing the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to withdraw all of a state's Medicaid funding if the state declines to participate in ACA's expansion of Medicaid eligibility. Yet, some states have indicated that they intend to not implement certain sections of the ACA, and some members of the U.S. Congress are still working to repeal the ACA. As a result, the ACA and/or certain of its provisions may be modified or eliminated by future legislation or litigation. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, or the MMA, imposed new requirements for the distribution and pricing of prescription drugs for Medicare beneficiaries. Under Part D, Medicare beneficiaries may enroll in prescription drug plans offered by private entities which will provide coverage of outpatient prescription drugs. Part D plans include both stand-alone prescription drug benefit plans and prescription drug coverage as a supplement to Medicare Advantage plans. Unlike Medicare Part A and B, Part D coverage is not standardized. Part D prescription drug plan sponsors are not required to pay for all covered Part D drugs, and each drug plan can develop its own drug formulary that identifies which drugs it will cover and at what tier or level. However, Part D prescription drug formularies must include drugs within each therapeutic category and class of covered Part D drugs, though not necessarily all the drugs in each category or class. Any formulary used by a Part D prescription drug plan must be developed and reviewed by a pharmacy and therapeutic committee. Government payment for some of the costs of prescription drugs may increase demand for our products for which we receive marketing approval. However, any negotiated prices for our products covered by a Part D prescription drug plan will likely be lower than the prices we might otherwise obtain. Moreover, while the MMA applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own payment rates. Any reduction in payment that results from the MMA may result in a similar reduction in payments from non-governmental payors. for substitution of generic products. Adoption of price controls and cost-containment measures, and adoption of more restrictive policies in jurisdictions with existing controls and measures, could further limit our net revenue and results. If these third-party payors do not consider our products to be cost-effective compared to other therapies, they may not cover our products as a benefit under their plans or, if they do, the level of payment may not be sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a profitable basis. Table of Contents 14 Sales of COMETRIQ and any future products of ours will depend, in part, on the extent to which their costs will be covered by third-party payors, such as government health programs, commercial insurance and managed healthcare organizations. These third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Additionally, the containment of healthcare costs has become a priority of federal and state governments and the prices of drugs have been a focus in this effort. The U.S. government, state legislatures and foreign governments have shown significant interest in implementing cost-containment programs, including price controls, restrictions on reimbursement and requirements Reimbursement There are also an increasing number of state laws that require manufacturers to make reports to states on pricing and marketing information. In addition, as discussed below, beginning in 2014, a similar federal requirement will require manufacturers to track and report to the federal government certain payments made to physicians and teaching hospitals made in the previous calendar year. These laws may affect our sales, marketing, and other promotional activities by imposing administrative and compliance burdens on us. In addition, given the lack of clarity with respect to these laws and their implementation, our reporting actions could be subject to the penalty provisions of the pertinent state, and soon federal, authorities. Federal and state healthcare laws, including fraud and abuse and health information privacy and security laws, are also applicable to our business. If we fail to comply with those laws, we could face substantial penalties and our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects could be adversely affected. The laws that may affect our ability to operate include: the federal Anti Kickback Statute, which prohibits soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce, or in return for, the purchase or recommendation of an item or service reimbursable under a federal healthcare program, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; federal civil and criminal false claims laws and civil monetary penalty laws, which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third party payers that are false or fraudulent; and the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, which created new federal criminal statutes that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program and making false statements relating to healthcare matters and was amended by the Health Information Technology and Clinical Health Act, or HITECH, and its implementing regulations, which imposes certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information. State law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, further complicate compliance efforts. Healthcare Regulation As in the United States, we may apply for designation of a product as an Orphan Drug for the treatment of a specific indication in the European Union before the application for marketing authorization is made. Orphan Drugs in Europe enjoy economic and marketing benefits, including up to ten years of market exclusivity for the approved indication unless another applicant can show that its product is safer, more effective or otherwise clinically superior to the orphan-designated product. Under European Union regulatory systems, a company may submit marketing authorization applications either under a centralized or decentralized procedure. The centralized procedure provides for the grant of a single marketing authorization that is valid for all European Union member states. The decentralized procedure provides for mutual recognition of national approval decisions. Under this procedure, the holder of a national marketing authorization may submit an application to the remaining member states. Within 90 days of receiving the applications and assessments report, each member state must decide whether to recognize approval. If a member state does not recognize the marketing authorization, the disputed points are eventually referred to the European Commission, whose decision is binding on all member states. In addition to regulations in the United States, we will be subject to regulations of other countries governing clinical trials and commercial sales and distribution of our products. Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a product, we must obtain approval by the comparable regulatory authorities of countries outside of the United States before we can commence clinical trials in such countries and approval of the regulators of such countries or economic areas, such as the European Union, before we may market products in those countries or areas. The approval process and requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from place to place, and the time may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. Regulation Outside of the United States and treatment of diseases or conditions that affect fewer than 200,000 people in the United States. Upon FDA receipt of Orphan Drug Designation, the sponsor is eligible for tax credits of up to 50% for qualified clinical trial expenses, the ability to apply for annual grant funding, waiver of Prescription Drug User Fee Act, or PDUFA, application fee, and upon approval, the potential for seven years of market exclusivity for the orphan-designated product for the orphan-designated indication. Table of Contents 13 The United States Orphan Drug Act promotes the development of products that demonstrate promise for the diagnosis The FDA policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted which could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates or approval of new diseases for our product candidates. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse governmental regulation that might arise from future legislative or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. The FDA closely regulates the marketing and promotion of drugs. A company can make only those claims relating to safety and efficacy that are approved by the FDA. Failure to comply with these requirements can result in adverse publicity, warning letters, corrective advertising and potential civil and criminal penalties. Physicians may prescribe legally available drugs for uses that are not described in the product labeling and that differ from those tested by us and approved by the FDA. Such off-label uses are common across medical specialties. Physicians may believe that such off-label uses are the best treatment for many patients in varied circumstances. The FDA does not regulate the behavior of physicians in their choice of treatments. The FDA does, however, restrict manufacturer communications on the subject of off-label use. Any products manufactured or distributed by us pursuant to FDA approvals are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, including record-keeping requirements and reporting of adverse experiences with the drug. Drug manufacturers and their subcontractors are required to register their establishments with the FDA and certain state agencies, and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and certain state agencies for compliance with GMP, which impose certain procedural and documentation requirements upon us and our third-party manufacturers. We cannot be certain that we or our present or future suppliers will be able to comply with the GMP regulations and other FDA regulatory requirements. If our present or future suppliers are not able to comply with these requirements, the FDA may halt our clinical trials, require us to recall a drug from distribution, or withdraw approval of the NDA for that drug. Satisfaction of FDA requirements or similar requirements of state, local and foreign regulatory agencies typically takes several years and the actual time required may vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product or disease. Government regulation may delay or prevent marketing of product candidates or new diseases for a considerable period of time and impose costly procedures upon our activities. The FDA or any other regulatory agency may not grant approvals for new indications for our product candidates on a timely basis, if at all. Success in early stage clinical trials does not ensure success in later stage clinical trials. Targets and pathways identified in vitro may be determined to be less relevant in clinical studies and results in animal model studies may not be predictive of human clinical results. Data obtained from clinical activities is not always conclusive and may be susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Even if a product candidate receives regulatory approval, the approval may be significantly limited to specific disease states, patient populations and dosages. Further, even after regulatory approval is obtained, later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product may result in restrictions on the product or even complete withdrawal of the product from the market. The FDA may require, or companies may pursue, additional clinical trials after a product is approved. These so-called phase 4 studies may be made a condition to be satisfied after a drug receives approval. The results of phase 4 studies can confirm the effectiveness of a product candidate and can provide important safety information to augment the FDA adverse drug reaction reporting system. The results of product development, preclinical studies and clinical trials are submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA, or as part of an NDA supplement. The submission of an NDA or NDA supplement requires payment of a substantial User Fee to FDA. The FDA may convene an advisory committee to provide clinical insight on NDA review questions. The FDA may deny approval of an NDA or NDA supplement by way of a Complete Response letter if the applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied, or it may require additional clinical data and/or an additional pivotal phase 3 clinical trial. Even if such data are submitted, the FDA may ultimately decide that the NDA or NDA supplement does not satisfy the criteria for approval. An NDA may be approved with significant restrictions on its labeling, marketing and distribution under a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy. Once issued, the FDA may withdraw product approval if ongoing regulatory standards are not met or if safety problems occur after the product reaches the market. In addition, the FDA may require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the effect of approved products that have been commercialized, and the FDA has the power to prevent or limit further marketing of a product based on the results of these post-marketing programs. Phase 3 When phase 2 evaluations demonstrate that a dosage range of the product is effective and has an acceptable safety profile, phase 3 trials are undertaken in large patient populations to further evaluate dosage, to provide replicate statistically significant evidence of clinical efficacy and to further test for safety in an expanded patient population at multiple clinical trial sites. data to evaluate the preliminary efficacy, optimal dosages and expanded evidence of safety. Multiple phase 2 clinical trials may be conducted by the sponsor to obtain information prior to beginning larger and more expensive phase 3 clinical trials. In some cases, a sponsor may decide to run what is referred to as a phase 2b evaluation, which is a second, confirmatory phase 2 trial that could, if positive, serve as a pivotal trial in the approval of a product candidate. Table of Contents 12 Phase 2 Studies are conducted with groups of patients afflicted with a specified disease in order to provide enough Phase 1 Studies are initially conducted in a limited patient population to test the product candidate for safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution and excretion in healthy humans or patients. For purposes of NDA approval, human clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases that may overlap. The testing and approval process requires substantial time, effort and financial resources. Prior to commencing the first clinical trial with a product candidate, we must submit an IND to the FDA. The IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA, within the 30-day time period, raises concerns or questions about the conduct of the clinical trial. In such a case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before the clinical trial can begin. Submission of an IND may not result in FDA authorization to commence a clinical trial. A separate submission to the existing IND must be made for each successive clinical trial conducted during product development. Further, an independent institutional review board for each medical center proposing to conduct the clinical trial must review and approve the plan for any clinical trial and its informed consent form before the trial commences at that center. Regulatory authorities or an institutional review board or the sponsor may suspend a clinical trial at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. FDA approval of a New Drug Application, or NDA, for commercial marketing, or NDA supplement, for an approval of a new indication if the product is already approved for another indication. pre-approval inspection of manufacturing facilities and selected clinical investigators for their compliance with Good Manufacturing Practices, or GMP, and Good Clinical Practices; and adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed drug candidate for its intended use; submission of an IND, which must become effective before clinical trials may begin; preclinical laboratory and animal tests that must be conducted in accordance with Good Laboratory Practices; The process required by the FDA before product candidates may be marketed in the United States generally involves the following: The FDA and comparable regulatory agencies in state and local jurisdictions and in foreign countries impose substantial requirements upon the clinical development, manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical products. These agencies and other federal, state and local entities regulate research and development activities and the testing, manufacture, quality control, safety, effectiveness, labeling, storage, record keeping, approval, advertising and promotion of our products. The following section contains some general background information regarding the regulatory environment and processes affecting our industry and is designed to illustrate in general terms the nature of our business and the potential impact of government regulations on our business. It is not intended to be comprehensive or complete. Depending on specific circumstances, the information below may or may not apply to us or any of our product candidates. In addition, the information is not necessarily a description of activities that we have undertaken in the past or will undertake in the future. The regulatory context in which we operate is complex and constantly changing. Government Regulation While we believe there are multiple third parties capable of providing most of the materials and services we need to manufacture and distribute COMETRIQ, and that supply of materials that cannot be second-sourced can be managed with inventory planning, there is always a risk that we may underestimate demand, and that our manufacturing capacity through third-party manufacturers may not be sufficient. In addition, because of the significant lead times involved in our supply chain for COMETRIQ, we may have less flexibility to adjust our supply in response to changes in demand than if we had shorter lead times. We believe the processes used to manufacture our products are proprietary. For products manufactured by our third-party contract manufacturers, we have licensed the necessary aspects of these processes that we believe are proprietary to us to enable them to manufacture the products for us. We have agreements with these third-party manufacturers that are intended to restrict these manufacturers from using or revealing our processes, but we cannot be certain that these third-party manufacturers will comply with these restrictions. required, this could impair our ability to deliver COMETRIQ on a timely basis or cause delays in our clinical trials and commercial activities. To the extent these risks materialize and affect their performance obligations to us, our financial results may be adversely affected. Table of Contents 11 Our third-party manufacturers are independent entities, under contract with us, who are subject to their own unique operational and financial risks which are out of our control. If we or any of our third-party manufacturers fail to perform as We may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of COMETRIQ if our designated manufacturers do not have the capacity or capability to manufacture the product according to our schedule and specifications. If any of these suppliers were to become unable or unwilling to supply us with API or finished product that complies with applicable regulatory requirements, we could incur significant delays in our clinical trials or interruption of commercial supply which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our multi-step supply chain for the manufacture and distribution of COMETRIQ consists of several suppliers located in multiple countries. Raw materials required for the production of the API are generally sourced from multiple third-party suppliers. Contract manufacturers in Europe and North America convert these raw materials into API for clinical and commercial purposes, respectively. We use a single third party to manufacture drug product for clinical purposes. We use a different third party to manufacture drug product and package and to label the finished product for commercial purposes. We use a single third party logistics provider to handle shipping and warehousing of our commercial supply of COMETRIQ and a single specialty pharmacy to dispense COMETRIQ to patients in fulfillment of prescriptions. We contract with third parties to manufacture the raw materials, the active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, and finished solid dose COMETRIQ products for clinical and commercial uses. We currently do not operate manufacturing facilities for clinical or commercial production of COMETRIQ. In addition, we expect for the foreseeable future to continue to rely on third parties for the manufacture of the raw materials, API and finished drug product for COMETRIQ. In this manner, we continue to build and maintain our supply chain. Manufacturing Daiichi Sankyo paid us a nonrefundable upfront payment in the amount of $20.0 million and was obligated to provide research and development funding of $3.8 million over a 15-month research term. In June 2007, our collaboration agreement with Daiichi Sankyo was amended to extend the research term by six months over which Daiichi Sankyo was required to provide $1.5 million in research and development funding. In November 2007, the parties decided not to further extend the research term. For each product from the collaboration, we are also entitled to receive payments upon attainment of pre-specified development, regulatory and commercialization milestones. In December 2010, we received a milestone payment of $5.0 million in connection with an IND filing made by Daiichi Sankyo for CS-3150 (XL550) and, in August 2012, we received a milestone of $5.5 million in connection with the initiation of a phase 2 clinical trial for CS-3150 (XL550). We are eligible to receive additional development, regulatory and commercialization milestones of up to $145.0 million. In addition, we are also entitled to receive royalties on any sales of certain products commercialized under the collaboration. Daiichi Sankyo may terminate the agreement upon 90 days written notice in which case Daiichi Sankyo payment obligations would cease, its license relating to compounds that modulate MR would terminate and revert to us and we would receive, subject to certain terms and conditions, licenses from Daiichi Sankyo to research, develop and commercialize compounds that were discovered under the collaboration. In March 2006, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Daiichi Sankyo for the discovery, development and commercialization of novel therapies targeted against the mineralocorticoid receptor, or MR, a nuclear hormone receptor implicated in a variety of cardiovascular and metabolic diseases. Under the terms of the agreement, we granted to Daiichi Sankyo an exclusive, worldwide license to certain intellectual property primarily relating to compounds that modulate MR, including CS-3150 (XL550). Daiichi Sankyo is responsible for all further preclinical and clinical development, regulatory, manufacturing and commercialization activities for the compounds and we do not have rights to reacquire such compounds, except as described below. Daiichi Sankyo Merck may at any time, upon specified prior notice to us, terminate the license. In addition, either party may terminate the agreement for the other party uncured material breach. In the event of termination by Merck at will or by us for Merck uncured material breach, the license granted to Merck would terminate. In the event of a termination by us for Merck uncured material breach, we would receive a royalty-free license from Merck to develop and commercialize certain joint products. In the event of termination by Merck for our uncured material breach, Merck would retain the licenses from us, and we would receive reduced royalties from Merck on commercial sales of products. We will also be eligible to receive combined sales performance milestones and royalties on net-sales of products emerging from the agreement. Milestones and royalties are payable on compounds emerging from our PI3K-d program or from certain compounds that arise from Merck internal discovery efforts targeting PI3K-d during a certain period. Table of Contents 10 Merck paid us an upfront cash payment of $12.0 million in January 2012 in connection with the agreement. We will be eligible to receive potential development and regulatory milestone payments for multiple indications of up to $239.0 million. In December 2011, we entered into an agreement with Merck pursuant to which we granted Merck an exclusive worldwide license to our PI3K-delta, or PI3K-d, program, including XL499 and other related compounds. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, Merck will have sole responsibility to research, develop, and commercialize compounds from our PI3K-d program. The agreement became effective in December 2011. Merck The $85.0 million loan we received from GlaxoSmithKline was repayable in three annual installments. We paid the final installment of principal and accrued interest under the loan in shares of our common stock on October 27, 2011 and GlaxoSmithKline subsequently released its related security interest in certain of our patents. GlaxoSmithKline continues to develop foretinib (XL880), and as disclosed on ClinicalTrials.gov, is currently recruiting patients into phase 1/2 trials studying the activity of foretinib in metastatic breast cancer both as a single agent (NCT01147484) and in combination with lapatinib (NCT01138384). In July 2008, we achieved proof-of-concept for cabozantinib and submitted the corresponding data report to GlaxoSmithKline. In October 2008, GlaxoSmithKline notified us in writing that it decided not to select cabozantinib for further development and commercialization and that it waived its right to select XL281, XL228, XL820 and XL844 for further development and commercialization. As a result, we retained the rights to develop, commercialize, and/or license all of the compounds, subject to payment to GlaxoSmithKline of a 3% royalty on net sales of any product incorporating cabozantinib. We have discontinued development of XL820, XL228 and XL844. In October 2008, the development term under the collaboration concluded as scheduled. Under the terms of the collaboration, GlaxoSmithKline had the right to select up to two of the compounds in the collaboration for further development and commercialization. GlaxoSmithKline selected foretinib (XL880), an inhibitor of MET and VEGFR2, and had the right to choose one additional compound from a pool of compounds, which consisted of cabozantinib, XL281, XL228, XL820 and XL844 as of the end of the development term. In October 2002, we established a collaboration with GlaxoSmithKline to discover and develop novel therapeutics in the areas of vascular biology, inflammatory disease and oncology. The collaboration involved three agreements: (1) a product development and commercialization agreement, (2) a stock purchase and stock issuance agreement and (3) a loan and security agreement. During the term of the collaboration, we received $65.0 million in upfront and milestone payments, $85.0 million in research and development funding and loans in the principal amount of $85.0 million. In connection with the collaboration, GlaxoSmithKline purchased a total of three million shares of our common stock. GlaxoSmithKline In December 2011, we and Sanofi entered into an agreement pursuant to which the parties terminated the discovery collaboration agreement and released each other from any potential liabilities arising under the collaboration agreement prior to effectiveness of the termination in December 2011. Each party retains ownership of the intellectual property that it generated under the collaboration agreement, and we granted Sanofi covenants not-to-enforce with respect to certain of our intellectual property rights. The termination agreement also provided that Sanofi would make a payment to us of $15.3 million, which we received in January 2012. If either party or its affiliate or licensee develops and commercializes a therapeutic product containing an isoform-selective PI3K inhibitor that arose from such party work (or was derived from such work) under the collaboration agreement, then such party will be obligated to pay royalties to the other party based upon the net sales of such products. The termination agreement provides that Sanofi will make a one-time milestone payment to us upon the first receipt by Sanofi or its affiliate or licensee of marketing approval for the first therapeutic product containing an isoform-selective PI3K inhibitor that arose from Sanofi work (or was derived from such work) under the collaboration agreement. Sanofi may, upon certain prior notice to us, terminate the license as to products containing SAR245408 (XL147) and SAR245409 (XL765). In the event of such termination election, Sanofi license relating to such product would terminate and revert to us, and we would receive, subject to certain terms, conditions and potential payment obligations, licenses from Sanofi to research, develop and commercialize such products. We will be eligible to receive development, regulatory and commercial milestones under the license agreement of $745.0 million in the aggregate, as well as royalties on sales of any products commercialized under the license. radiation) in patients with malignant gliomas (NCT00704080). Table of Contents 9 Under the license agreement, Sanofi received a worldwide exclusive license to SAR245408 (XL147) and SAR245409 (XL765), which are in phase 1, phase 1b/2 and phase 2 clinical trials, and has sole responsibility for all subsequent clinical, regulatory, commercial and manufacturing activities. Sanofi is responsible for funding all development activities with respect to SAR245408 (XL147) and SAR245409 (XL765), including our activities. Following the effectiveness of the license agreement, we conducted the majority of the clinical trials for SAR245408 (XL147) and SAR245409 (XL765) at the expense of Sanofi. As provided for under the license agreement, however, the parties transitioned all development activities for these compounds to Sanofi in 2011. As disclosed on ClinicalTrials.gov, SAR245408 (XL147) is currently being studied in clinical trials in combination with an ErbB3 inhibitor in patients with solid tumors (NCT01436565) and in patients with advanced or recurrent endometrial cancer (NCT01013324). As disclosed on ClinicalTrials.gov, SAR245409 (XL765) is currently being studied in clinical trials in patients with lymphoma either as a single agent (NCT01403636) or in combination with bendamustine and/or rituximab (NCT01410513). In addition SAR245409 (XL765) is being studied in combination with a MEK inhibitor in patients with locally advanced or metastatic solid tumors (NCT01390818), and in combination with temozolomide (with or without In May 2009, we entered into a global license agreement with Sanofi for SAR245408 (XL147) and SAR245409 (XL765), leading inhibitors of phosphoinositide-3 kinase, or PI3K, and a broad collaboration for the discovery of inhibitors of PI3K for the treatment of cancer. The license agreement and collaboration agreement became effective on July 7, 2009. In connection with the effectiveness of the license and collaboration, on July 20, 2009, we received upfront payments of $140.0 million ($120.0 million for the license and $20.0 million for the collaboration), less applicable withholding taxes of $7.0 million, for a net receipt of $133.0 million. We received a refund payment in December 2011 with respect to the withholding taxes previously withheld. Sanofi Under the collaboration agreement, Bristol-Myers Squibb paid us a nonrefundable upfront cash payment in the amount of $17.5 million and was obligated to provide research and development funding of $10.0 million per year for an initial research period of two years. In September 2007, the collaboration was extended at Bristol-Myers Squibb request through January 12, 2009, and in November 2008, the collaboration was further extended at Bristol-Myers Squibb request through January 12, 2010. Under the collaboration agreement, Bristol-Myers Squibb is required to pay us development and regulatory milestones of up to $138.0 million per product for up to two products from the collaboration. In addition, we are also entitled to receive sales milestones of up to $225.0 million and royalties on sales of any products commercialized under the collaboration. In connection with the extension of the collaboration through January 2009 and subsequently through January 2010, Bristol-Myers Squibb paid us additional research funding of approximately $7.7 million and approximately $5.8 million, respectively. In December 2007, we received $5.0 million for achieving a development milestone with respect to BMS-852927 (XL041). In December 2005, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Bristol-Myers Squibb for the discovery, development and commercialization of novel therapies targeted against LXR, a nuclear hormone receptor implicated in a variety of cardiovascular and metabolic disorders. This agreement became effective in January 2006, at which time we granted Bristol-Myers Squibb an exclusive worldwide license with respect to certain intellectual property primarily relating to compounds that modulate LXR, including BMS-852927 (XL041). During the research term, we jointly identified drug candidates with Bristol-Myers Squibb that were ready for IND-enabling studies. After the selection of a drug candidate for further clinical development by Bristol-Myers Squibb, Bristol-Myers Squibb agreed to be solely responsible for further preclinical development as well as clinical development, regulatory, manufacturing and sales/marketing activities for the selected drug candidate. We do not have rights to reacquire the drug candidates selected by Bristol-Myers Squibb. The research term expired in January 2010 and we transferred the technology to Bristol-Myers Squibb in 2011 to enable it to continue the LXR program. The collaboration agreement was amended and restated in April 2011 in connection with an assignment of patents to a wholly-owned subsidiary. LXR Collaboration Bristol-Myers Squibb may, upon notice to us, terminate the agreement as to any product containing or comprising the selected candidate. In the event of such termination election, Bristol-Myers Squibb license relating to such product would terminate and revert to us, and we would receive, subject to certain terms and conditions, licenses from Bristol-Myers Squibb to research, develop and commercialize certain collaboration compounds that were discovered. conducting new activities or funding new development or commercialization activities with respect to BMS-833923 (XL139) and will therefore no longer be eligible to share profits on sales of any commercialized products under the collaboration. We will continue to be eligible to receive regulatory and commercial milestones of up to $260.0 million as well as double-digit royalties on any future sales of any products commercialized under the collaboration. As a result of the November 2010 amendment to the collaboration, the research term has ended, and we have no further obligation to deliver to Bristol-Myers Squibb a third IND candidate under the collaboration. Table of Contents 8 For each IND candidate selected, we were entitled to receive a $20.0 million selection milestone from Bristol-Myers Squibb. Once selected, Bristol-Myers Squibb became responsible for leading the further development and commercialization of the selected IND candidates. In addition, we had the right to opt in to co-promote the selected IND candidates, in which case we would equally share all development costs and profits in the United States. In January 2008 and November 2008, Bristol-Myers Squibb exercised its option under the collaboration to develop and commercialize BMS-833923 (XL139), a Hedgehog inhibitor, and BMS-863233 (XL413), a CDC7 inhibitor, respectively. Under the terms of the collaboration agreement, the selection of BMS-833923 (XL139) and BMS-863233 (XL413) by Bristol-Myers Squibb entitled us to milestone payments of $20.0 million each, which we received in February 2008 and December 2008, respectively. In addition, we exercised our option under the collaboration agreement to co-develop and co-commercialize each of BMS-833923 (XL139) and BMS-863233 (XL413) in the United States. However, in September 2010, we and Bristol-Myers Squibb terminated the BMS-863233 (XL413) program due to an unfavorable pharmacological profile observed in phase 1 clinical evaluation. Additionally, in connection with an amendment to the collaboration which became effective in November 2010, we exercised our right to opt-out of further co-development of BMS-833923 (XL139) in consideration for a cash payment of $20.0 million. As disclosed on ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT01218477), BMS is continuing to develop BMS-833923 (XL139) in combination with dasatinib in a phase 1/2 clinical trial in patients with chronic myeloid leukemia. The collaboration agreement was amended and restated in April 2011 in connection with an assignment of patents to a wholly-owned subsidiary. We have no further responsibility for In December 2006, we entered into a worldwide collaboration with Bristol-Myers Squibb, which became effective in January 2007, to discover, develop and commercialize novel targeted therapies for the treatment of cancer. We were responsible for discovery and preclinical development of small molecule drug candidates directed against mutually selected targets. In January 2007, Bristol-Myers Squibb made an upfront payment of $60.0 million to us for which we granted Bristol-Myers Squibb the right to select up to three IND candidates from six future Exelixis compounds. 2007 Cancer Collaboration On June 18, 2010, we regained full rights to develop and commercialize cabozantinib under the collaboration agreement following receipt of notice from Bristol-Myers Squibb of its decision to terminate the collaboration agreement, solely as to cabozantinib, on a worldwide basis. Bristol-Myers Squibb informed us that the termination was based upon its review of cabozantinib in the context of Bristol-Myers Squibb overall research and development priorities and pipeline products. On June 28, 2010, in connection with the termination, we received a $17.0 million transition payment from Bristol-Myers Squibb in satisfaction of its obligations under the collaboration agreement to continue to fund its share of development costs for cabozantinib for a period of three months following the notice of termination. As a result of the termination, Bristol-Myers Squibb license relating to cabozantinib terminated and its rights to cabozantinib reverted to us, and we received, subject to certain terms and conditions, licenses from Bristol-Myers Squibb to research, develop and commercialize cabozantinib. On July 8, 2011, we received written notification from Bristol-Myers Squibb of its decision to terminate the collaboration agreement on a worldwide basis as to XL281. The termination was made pursuant to the terms of the collaboration agreement and became effective on October 8, 2011. Bristol-Myers Squibb informed us that the termination was based upon Bristol-Myers Squibb review of XL281 in the context of Bristol-Myers Squibb overall research and development priorities and pipeline products. Upon the effectiveness of the termination, Bristol-Myers Squibb license relating to XL281 terminated, and rights to XL281 reverted to us. We also received, subject to certain terms and conditions, licenses from Bristol-Myers Squibb to research, develop and commercialize XL281. We have discontinued activities related to XL281 and do not currently expect to further research, develop or commercialize XL281. In December 2008, we entered into a worldwide collaboration with Bristol-Myers Squibb for cabozantinib and XL281 (BMS-908662), a RAF inhibitor. Upon effectiveness of the collaboration agreement in December 2008, Bristol-Myers Squibb made a nonrefundable upfront cash payment of $195.0 million for the development and commercialization rights to both programs. The agreement required Bristol-Myers Squibb to make additional license payments to us of $45.0 million, which were received during 2009. 2008 Cancer Collaboration product-by-product and country-by-country basis. In addition, either party may terminate the agreement for the other party uncured material breach. In the event of termination by Bristol-Myers Squibb at will or by us for Bristol-Myers Squibb uncured material breach, the license granted to Bristol-Myers Squibb would terminate, the right to such product would revert to us and we would receive a royalty-bearing license for late-stage reverted compounds and a royalty-free license for early-stage reverted compounds from Bristol-Myers Squibb to develop and commercialize such product in the related country. In the event of termination by Bristol-Myers Squibb for our uncured material breach, Bristol-Myers Squibb would retain the right to such product, subject to continued payment of milestones and royalties. Table of Contents 7 Bristol-Myers Squibb may, at any time, terminate the collaboration agreement upon certain prior notice to us on a Under the terms of the collaboration agreement, we will be responsible for activities related to the discovery, optimization and characterization of the ROR antagonists during the collaborative research period. In July 2011, we earned a $2.5 million milestone payment for achieving certain lead optimization criteria. The collaborative research period began on October 8, 2010 and will end on the earlier to occur of (i) July 8, 2013 if a compound has not satisfied certain specified criteria by such time or (ii) the date when such compound satisfied the next level of specified criteria, whichever is earlier. Following the collaborative research period, Bristol-Myers Squibb will have sole responsibility for any further research, development, manufacture and commercialization of products developed under the collaboration and will bear all costs and expenses associated with those activities. In October 2010, we entered into a worldwide collaboration with Bristol-Myers Squibb pursuant to which each party granted to the other certain intellectual property licenses to enable the parties to discover, optimize and characterize ROR antagonists that may subsequently be developed and commercialized by Bristol-Myers Squibb. In November 2010 we received a nonrefundable upfront cash payment of $5.0 million from Bristol-Myers Squibb. Additionally, for each product developed by Bristol-Myers Squibb under the collaboration, we will be eligible to receive development and regulatory milestones of up to $255.0 million in the aggregate and commercialization milestones of up to $150.0 million in the aggregate, as well as royalties on commercial sales of any such products. The collaboration agreement was amended and restated in April 2011 in connection with an assignment of patents to a wholly-owned subsidiary. ROR Collaboration Agreement Bristol-Myers Squibb may at any time, upon specified prior notice to us, terminate the license on a product-by-product and country-by-country basis. In addition, either party may terminate the license agreement for the other party uncured material breach. In the event of termination by Bristol-Myers Squibb at will or by us for Bristol-Myers Squibb uncured material breach, the license granted to Bristol-Myers Squibb would terminate, the right to such product would revert to us and we would receive from Bristol-Myers Squibb a license to develop and commercialize such product in the related country. Such license would be royalty-free if the agreement is terminated by Bristol-Myers Squibb at will, or royalty-bearing if the agreement is terminated by us for Bristol-Myers Squibb uncured material breach. In the event of termination by Bristol-Myers Squibb for our uncured material breach, Bristol-Myers Squibb would retain the right to such product and we would receive reduced royalties from Bristol-Myers Squibb on commercial sales of such product. Under the license agreement, Bristol-Myers Squibb received a worldwide exclusive license to XL475 and sole control and responsibility for all research, development, commercial and manufacturing activities. In November 2010 we received a nonrefundable upfront cash payment of $35.0 million from Bristol-Myers Squibb. Additionally, for each product developed by Bristol-Myers Squibb under the license, we will be eligible to receive development and regulatory milestones of up to $250.0 million in the aggregate and commercial milestones of up to $150.0 million in the aggregate, as well as royalties on commercial sales of any such products. In October 2010, we entered into a global license agreement with Bristol-Myers Squibb pursuant to which we granted to Bristol-Myers Squibb a license to our small-molecule TGR5 agonist program, including rights to the program lead compound, XL475, as well as potential backups. The license agreement became effective in November 2010 following clearance under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvement Act of 1976, as amended. The license agreement was amended and restated in April 2011 in connection with an assignment of patents to a wholly-owned subsidiary. TGR5 License Agreement Bristol-Myers Squibb commercialization costs. The profit share has multiple tiers--we are entitled to 50% of profits from the first $200 million of U.S. actual sales, decreasing to 30% of profits from U.S. actual sales in excess of $400 million. We are entitled to low double-digit royalties on ex-U.S. net sales. We also have the option to co-promote in the United States. The co-promotion option would allow us to provide up to 25% of the total sales force for GDC-0973 (XL518) in the United States. We must exercise the co-promotion option within 12 months of receiving notification of the first patient dosed in the first phase 3 clinical trial of GDC-0973 (XL518). Our receipt of the notification of dosing from Genentech on January 14, 2013 triggered the beginning of the period in which we can exercise our co-promotion option. As a condition to exercise the co-promotion option, we must have the capability to co-promote, including an adequate internal sales and promotional infrastructure, and an experienced internal oncology sales force. If Genentech terminates the co-development agreement without cause, all licenses that were granted to Genentech under the agreement terminate and revert to us. Additionally, we would receive, subject to certain conditions, licenses from Genentech to research, develop and commercialize reverted product candidates. Table of Contents 6 Under the terms of our agreement with Genentech, we are entitled to an initial equal share of U.S. profits and losses for GDC-0973 (XL518), which will decrease as sales increase, and will share equally in the U.S. marketing and Preliminary results from BRIM7, an ongoing phase 1b dose escalation study conducted by Roche and Genentech of the BRAF inhibitor, or BRAFi, vemurafenib in combination with GDC-0973 (XL518) in patients with locally advanced/unresectable or metastatic melanoma carrying a BRAFV600 mutation were presented at the 2012 ESMO Annual Meeting. As disclosed on ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT01689519), a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase 3 clinical trial evaluating the combination of vemurafenib with GDC-0973 (XL518) versus vemurafenib in previously untreated BRAFV600 mutation positive patients with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic melanoma was initiated on November 1, 2012. On January 14, 2013, we received notice from Genentech that the first patient was dosed in this phase 3 pivotal trial. Genentech paid upfront and milestone payments of $25.0 million in December 2006 and $15.0 million in January 2007 upon signing of the co-development agreement and with the submission of the IND for GDC-0973 (XL518). Under the terms of the agreement, we were responsible for developing GDC-0973 (XL518) through the end of a phase 1 clinical trial, and Genentech had the option to co-develop GDC-0973 (XL518), which Genentech could exercise after receipt of certain phase 1 data from us. In March 2008, Genentech exercised its option, triggering a payment to us of $3.0 million, which we received in April 2008. We were responsible for the phase 1 clinical trial until the point that a maximum tolerated dose, or MTD, was determined. After MTD was achieved, we granted to Genentech an exclusive worldwide revenue-bearing license to GDC-0973 (XL518) in March 2009, at which point Genentech became responsible for completing the phase 1 clinical trial and subsequent clinical development. We received an additional $7.0 million milestone payment in March 2010. In December 2006, we entered into a worldwide co-development agreement with Genentech for the development and commercialization of GDC-0973 (XL518). GDC-0973 (XL518) is a potent, highly selective inhibitor of MEK, a serine/threonine kinase that is a component of the RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK pathway. This pathway mediates signaling downstream of growth factor receptors, and is prominently activated in a wide variety of human tumors. In preclinical studies, oral dosing of GDC-0973 (XL518) resulted in potent and sustained inhibition of MEK in RAS- or BRAF-mutant tumor models. Exelixis discovered GDC-0973 (XL518) internally and advanced the compound to investigational new drug, or IND, status. Genentech are related to commercial milestones. 46% are related to regulatory milestones and 44% are related to clinical development milestones, 10% in the aggregate on a non-risk adjusted basis, of which $3.1 billion With respect to our partnered compounds, we are eligible to receive potential milestone payments under our collaborations totaling approximately We have established collaborations with leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, or Bristol-Myers Squibb, Sanofi, Genentech, Inc. (a wholly- owned member of the Roche Group), or Genentech, GlaxoSmithKline, Merck (known as MSD outside of the United States and Canada) and Daiichi Sankyo Company Limited, or Daiichi Sankyo, for various compounds and programs in our portfolio. Pursuant to these collaborations, we have out-licensed compounds or programs to a partner for further development and commercialization, generally have no further unfunded cost obligations related to such compounds or programs and may be entitled to receive research funding, milestones and royalties or a share of profits from commercialization. As disclosed on ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT01689519), a phase 3 clinical trial for one of these compounds, GDC-0973 (XL518), which we out-licensed to Genentech, was initiated on November 1, 2012. In addition, several other out-licensed compounds are in multiple phase 2 studies. These partnered compounds potentially could be of significant value to us if their development progresses successfully. Collaborations We launched the IST program in October 2010, and it has already provided important interim data through the dose-ranging study in CRPC patients described above. These data were important for dose selection in the COMET pivotal trial program. Cabozantinib is being evaluated in a variety of ISTs. Currently there are 11 ongoing ISTs and 9 further studies in the protocol development stage, and we expect to continue to consider additional IST proposals for the foreseeable future. Commencement of each of the proposed trials approved under the CRADA is subject to protocol development and satisfaction of certain other conditions. The proposed trials approved under the CRADA will be conducted under an investigational new drug application held by NCI-CTEP. We believe our CRADA reflects a major commitment by NCI-CTEP to support the broad exploration of cabozantinib's potential in a wide variety of cancers that have substantial unmet medical needs. NCI-CTEP provides funding for as many as 20 active clinical trials each year for a five-year period. We believe the agreement will enable us to broadly expand the cabozantinib development program in a cost-efficient manner. vemurafenib, a BRAF inhibitor, in patients with BRAF-mutated melanoma, and a trial to evaluate the safety and pharmacokinetics of cabozantinib in pediatric patients. Table of Contents 5 Additional phase 1 clinical trials to further evaluate cabozantinib, consisting of a trial evaluating cabozantinib in combination with docetaxel in CRPC patients, a trial exploring the utility of combining cabozantinib with Additional phase 2 clinical trials to explore cabozantinib's potential utility in other tumor types, consisting of trials in endometrial cancer, bladder cancer, sarcoma, second line non-small cell lung cancer, and second line differentiated thyroid cancer. Positive results in these indications could lead to further study in randomized phase 2 or phase 3 clinical trials. Phase 2 clinical trials to help prioritize future pivotal trials of cabozantinib in disease settings where there is substantial unmet medical need and in which cabozantinib has previously demonstrated clinical activity, consisting of randomized phase 2 clinical trials in first line renal cell carcinoma, platinum-resistant or refractory ovarian cancer, ocular melanoma, and second line/third line non-small cell lung cancer. We entered into our CRADA with NCI-CTEP in November 2011. The proposed clinical trials approved to date under the CRADA include the following: We have launched two initiatives to expand the cabozantinib development program beyond our internal development efforts: our CRADA with NCI-CTEP, and our IST program. We currently are planning to initiate phase 3 pivotal trials of cabozantinib in hepatocellular cancer and renal cell carcinoma in 2013, based on interim RDT data and data from a separate phase 1 clinical trial presented at ASCO in June 2012. We are also evaluating the potential initiation of pivotal trials in other tumor types. We believe the initiation of such trials potentially will increase the value of the cabozantinib franchise, accelerate potential revenues, and spread the development and commercialization risk for cabozantinib across multiple opportunities. We expect to expand the cabozantinib development program to other solid tumor indications, based on encouraging interim data that have emerged from our RDT as well as other clinical trials. Objective tumor responses have been observed in patients treated with cabozantinib in 12 of 13 individual tumor types investigated to date, reflecting the broad potential clinical activity and commercial opportunity of this product candidate. In addition to activity against bone and soft tissue lesions in patients with CRPC, we have also observed resolution of metastatic bone lesions on bone scan in patients with metastatic breast cancer, renal cell carcinoma, thyroid cancer, and melanoma in the RDT. Other Cancer Indications We are also planning to initiate two randomized phase1b/2 clinical trials evaluating cabozantinib in combination with abiraterone or enzalutamide in patients with metastatic CRPC who have not received prior abiraterone or enzalutamide therapies, or chemotherapy. COMET-2 is a double-blind, placebo-controlled study designed to enroll 246 patients with CRPC that is metastatic to the bone, who are suffering from moderate to severe bone pain despite optimized narcotic medication, and who have failed prior docetaxel therapy, and have also failed prior abiraterone and/or enzalutamide therapies. The trial is being conducted in English-speaking regions, including the United States, Canada, Australia, and the United Kingdom. Patients are being randomized 1:1 to receive either cabozantinib or mitoxantrone/prednisone. Alleviation of bone pain will be determined by comparing the percentage of patients in the two treatment arms who achieve a pain response at Week 6 that is confirmed at Week 12. The trial design assumes that 25% of patients in the cabozantinib arm will have a pain response while 8% of patients in the mitoxantrone/prednisone arm will have a pain response. Prior to randomization, patients will undergo a period during which their pain medication is optimized using one long acting narcotic medication and one immediate release narcotic medication. This optimization follows a standard approach defined in the National Comprehensive Cancer Network guidelines. Patients in the cabozantinib arm will be dosed at 60 mg per day until the patient no longer receives clinical benefit. The definition of a responder with respect to the bone pain endpoint is a greater than or equal to 30% decrease from baseline in the average of the daily worst pain intensity collected over seven days in Week 6 and confirmed in Week 12, with neither a concomitant increase in average daily dose of any narcotic pain medication, nor addition of any new narcotic pain medication. Overall survival will be a secondary endpoint of the COMET-2 trial. The trial will be deemed successful if the primary endpoint of statistically significant pain improvement is met and the overall survival analysis does not show an adverse impact on overall survival in the cabozantinib arm. also failed prior abiraterone and/or enzalutamide therapies. There is no limit to the number, order or type of prior treatments. Patients will be randomized 2:1 to receive cabozantinib (60 mg daily, N=640) or prednisone (5 mg twice daily, N=320). Each arm will also receive placebo to account for the once-daily versus twice-daily dosing regimens of cabozantinib and prednisone, respectively. The trial has 90% power to detect a 25% reduction in the risk of death (HR = 0.75). The final analysis will be event driven, with 578 events (deaths) required. A single interim analysis is planned after 387 events. The secondary endpoint is bone scan response as assessed by an independent radiology facility. Table of Contents 4 COMET-1 is a double-blind, placebo-controlled study designed to include up to 280 international sites. The trial is designed to enroll 960 patients with CRPC that is metastatic to the bone and who have failed prior docetaxel therapy, and have rial-1) and COMET-2, were designed to provide an opportunity to clinically and commercially differentiate cabozantinib as an oncology agent with a potentially beneficial impact on overall survival, pain, and narcotic usage. We initiated the COMET-1 trial with an overall survival endpoint in May 2012 and we initiated the COMET-2 trial with a pain palliation endpoint in December 2011. We currently believe that the top-line results from the COMET-1 and COMET-2 trials will be available in 2014. T fficacy E ET Inhibition CRPC M zantinib O ab C Two phase 3 pivotal trials, COMET-1 ( Exelixis has implemented a focused clinical strategy to investigate cabozantinib in a comprehensive development program for CRPC to potentially generate a product that could effectively compete in the CRPC marketplace. Interim data from our randomized discontinuation trial, or RDT, suggest that cabozantinib has shown novel activity against bone and soft tissue lesions in patients with CRPC. In addition, interim data demonstrated that CRPC patients with bone metastases and bone pain at baseline experienced alleviation of pain, were able to reduce or discontinue narcotic medication and experienced a reduction in circulating tumor cell count. Lower starting doses of cabozantinib are being evaluated in CRPC patients in a non-randomized expansion cohort, or NRE, of the RDT treated at a daily dose of 40 mg, and in a dose-ranging study in CRPC patients conducted through an IST. Interim data from the NRE reported at the European Society for Medical Oncology, or ESMO, Annual Meeting in September 2012 suggest that the 40 mg daily dose has similar clinical activity to the 100 mg daily dose used in the RDT for key parameters, including reduction of metastatic bone and soft tissue disease, and reduction of bone pain and narcotic use, with an apparent improvement in tolerability compared to the 100 mg dose cohort. Interim data from the 40 mg cohort of the dose-ranging IST reported at the American Society of Clinical Oncology Annual Meeting, or ASCO, in June 2012 had demonstrated similar clinical activity. CRPC We believe that cabozantinib's broad clinical profile is compelling and will allow commercial differentiation, assuming regulatory approval. The most advanced clinical program for cabozantinib beyond progressive, metastatic MTC is focused on the treatment of metastatic CRPC. It is a priority for us to generate additional data in a broad range of tumor types, including hepatocellular cancer, renal cell carcinoma, ovarian cancer, melanoma, breast cancer, non-small cell lung cancer and differentiated thyroid cancer, to support further prioritization of our clinical and commercial options. In addition, postmarketing requirements in connection with the approval of COMETRIQ in progressive, metastatic MTC dictate that we conduct additional studies in progressive, metastatic MTC related to dosing, pharmacokinetics, carcinogenicity, mutagenicity and teratogenicity of COMETRIQ as more fully described above under "--Postmarketing Commitments." Cabozantinib Development Program In November 2012, the European Medicines Agency accepted for review our Marketing Authorization Application, or MAA, for COMETRIQ for the proposed indication of treatment of progressive, unresectable, locally advanced, or metastatic MTC. The completion of the MAA validation process confirms that the submission is sufficient to permit a substantive review for marketing authorization in the European Union. COMETRIQ received orphan drug designation in the European Union from the Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products for the treatment of MTC in February 2009. EMA Marketing Authorization Application for COMETRIQ To further support appropriate utilization and future development of COMETRIQ, our Medical Affairs department is responsible for providing appropriate scientific and medical education and information to physicians, and preparing scientific presentations and publications, and overseeing the process for ISTs. COMETRIQ is distributed in the United States exclusively through Diplomat Specialty Pharmacy, an independent specialty pharmacy that will allow for efficient delivery of the medication by mail directly to patients. To help ensure that all eligible progressive, metastatic MTC patients have appropriate access to COMETRIQ, we have established a comprehensive reimbursement and support program called Exelixis Access Services. Through Exelixis Access Services, we intend: to provide co-pay assistance to qualified, commercially insured patients to help minimize out-of-pocket costs; to provide free drug to uninsured patients who meet certain clinical and financial criteria; and to make contributions to independent co-pay assistance charities to help patients who don't qualify for our co-pay assistance program. In addition, Exelixis Access Services is designed to provide comprehensive reimbursement support services, such as prior authorization support, benefits investigation, and if needed, appeals support. progressive, metastatic MTC. We have also designed our commercial organization to maintain the maximum amount of flexibility, and to enable us to quickly scale up if additional indications are approved in the future. We believe we have created an efficient commercial organization, taking advantage of outsourcing options where prudent to maximize the effectiveness of our commercial expenditures. Table of Contents 3 We have scaled our commercial organization so that it is commensurate with the size of the market opportunity for COMETRIQ became commercially available in the United States in January 2013 and is being marketed in the United States principally through a small commercial team with relevant expertise in the promotion, distribution and reimbursement of niche oncology drugs. We have also fielded a small, outsourced specialty sales force whose responsibility is to promote COMETRIQ for its approved indication to customers. The wholesale acquisition cost of COMETRIQ has been set at $9,900 for a 28-day supply. COMETRIQ has been flat priced, meaning each dosage strength will be priced the same. We currently estimate that there are between 500 and 700 first and second line metastatic MTC patients in the United States each year who will be eligible for COMETRIQ. Commercialization Four non-clinical studies to further assess the carcinogenicity, mutagenicity and teratogenicity of COMETRIQ. Two clinical pharmacology studies assessing the pharmacokinetics of COMETRIQ. One will address the effect of administering COMETRIQ in conjunction with agents that increase gastric pH such as proton pump inhibitors, and the other study will assess the pharmacokinetics of COMETRIQ in patients with hepatic impairment. A phase 2 study comparing a lower dose of COMETRIQ with the labeled dose of 140 mg. This study will evaluate safety and PFS in progressive, metastatic MTC patients. We are also subject to the following postmarketing requirements: In connection with the approval of COMETRIQ for the treatment of progressive, metastatic MTC, we are required to provide the analysis of mature overall survival data from the EXAM trial when the required 217 events (deaths) have occurred. Postmarketing Commitments A statistically significant prolongation in PFS was demonstrated among COMETRIQ-treated patients compared to those receiving placebo [HR 0.28 (95% CI: 0.19, 0.40); p<0.0001], with median PFS of 11.2 months in the COMETRIQ arm and 4.0 months in the placebo arm. Partial responses were observed only among patients in the COMETRIQ arm (27% vs 0%; p<0.0001). The median duration of objective response was 14.7 months (95% CI: 11.1, 19.3) for patients treated with COMETRIQ. There was no statistically significant difference in overall survival between the treatment arms at the planned interim analysis. edullary Thyroid Cancer). Patients were required to have evidence of actively progressive disease within 14 months prior to study entry confirmed by an Independent Radiology Review Committee, or IRRC, masked to treatment assignment (89%), or the treating physician (11%). Patients were randomized (2:1) to receive COMETRIQ 140 mg (n = 219) or placebo (n = 111) orally, once daily until disease progression determined by the treating physician or until intolerable toxicity. Randomization was stratified by age ( 65 years vs. > 65 years) and prior use of a tyrosine kinase inhibitor. No cross-over was allowed at the time of progression. The primary endpoint was to compare progression-free survival, or PFS, in patients receiving COMETRIQ versus patients receiving placebo. Secondary endpoints included objective response rate and overall survival. The main efficacy outcome measures of PFS, objective response and response duration were based on IRRC-confirmed events using modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) (a widely used set of rules that define when cancer patients improve ("respond"), stay the same ("stabilize") or worsen ("progress") during treatments). M dvanced A L184 (Cabozantinib) in X fficacy of E COMETRIQ's safety and efficacy were assessed in an international, multi-center, randomized double-blinded controlled trial of 330 patients with progressive, metastatic MTC, known as EXAM ( EXAM Pivotal Trial The COMETRIQ label has boxed warnings concerning risk of gastrointestinal perforations and fistulas, and severe hemorrhage. Other warnings and precautions include thrombotic events, wound complications, hypertension, osteonecrosis of the jaw, palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia, proteinuria, reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome, caution regarding the potential for drug interactions with strong CYP3A4 inducers or inhibitors, the recommendation against use in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment, and the potential for embryo-fetal toxicity. The recommended dose of COMETRIQ in progressive, metastatic MTC is 140 mg orally, once daily (one 80 mg capsule and three 20 mg capsules) administered without food, and this dose may be reduced stepwise to 100 or 60 mg once daily to appropriately manage each individual patient's tolerability. COMETRIQ inhibits the activity of multiple tyrosine kinases, including RET, MET, and VEGFR2. These receptor tyrosine kinases are involved in both normal cellular function and in pathologic processes such as oncogenesis, metastasis, tumor angiogenesis, and maintenance of the tumor microenvironment. On November 29, 2012, the FDA approved COMETRIQ for the treatment of progressive, metastatic MTC in the United States and we commercially launched COMETRIQ in January 2013. COMETRIQ (cabozantinib) Table of Contents 2 We intend to advance COMETRIQ through an extensive development program exploring multiple cancer indications including, but not limited to, prostate, hepatocellular, renal, breast and non-small-cell-lung cancers. We intend to focus our internal efforts on cancers for which we believe COMETRIQ has significant therapeutic and commercial potential in the near term, while utilizing our Cooperative Research and Development Agreement, or CRADA, with the National Cancer Institute's Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program, or NCI-CTEP, and investigator sponsored trials, or ISTs, to generate additional data to allow us to prioritize future late stage trials in a cost-effective fashion. We believe that this staged approach to building value represents the most rational and effective use of our personnel and financial resources. We believe that the available clinical data demonstrate that COMETRIQ has the potential to be a broadly active anti-cancer agent, and our objective is to build COMETRIQ into a major oncology franchise. The initial regulatory approval of COMETRIQ to treat progressive, metastatic MTC provides a niche market opportunity that allows us to gain commercialization and marketing experience at relatively low cost while providing a solid foundation for potential expansion into larger cancer indications. Our Strategy We have also established a portfolio of other novel compounds that we believe have the potential to address serious unmet medical needs. Many of these compounds are being advanced by partners as part of collaborations, at no cost to us but with significant retained economics to Exelixis in the event these compounds are commercialized. As disclosed on ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT01689519), a phase 3 clinical trial for one of these compounds, GDC-0973 (XL518), which we out-licensed to Genentech, Inc. (a wholly-owned member of the Roche Group), was initiated on November 1, 2012. Exelixis, Inc. ( Exelixis, we, our or us ) is a biotechnology company committed to developing small molecule therapies for the treatment of cancer. We are focusing our proprietary resources and development and commercialization efforts exclusively on COMETRIQ (cabozantinib), our wholly-owned inhibitor of multiple receptor tyrosine kinases. On November 29, 2012, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, approved COMETRIQ for the treatment of progressive, metastatic medullary thyroid cancer, or MTC, in the United States. COMETRIQ is being evaluated in a variety of other cancer indications through a broad development program, including two ongoing phase 3 pivotal trials in metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer, or CRPC, and two additional phase 3 pivotal trials in metastatic hepatocellular cancer and metastatic renal cell cancer that we plan to initiate in 2013. We believe COMETRIQ has the potential to be a high-quality, broadly-active and differentiated anti-cancer agent that can make a meaningful difference in the lives of patients. Our objective is to develop COMETRIQ into a major oncology franchise, and we believe that the approval of COMETRIQ for the treatment of progressive, metastatic MTC provides us with the opportunity to establish a commercial presence in furtherance of this objective. Overview BUSINESS ITEM 1. . Fiscal year 2010, a 52-week year, ended on December 31, 2010, fiscal year 2011, a 52-week year, ended on December 30, 2011, and fiscal year 2012, a 52-week year, ended on December 28, 2012. Fiscal year 2013, a 52-week year, will end on December 27, 2013. For convenience, references in this report as of and for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2010, December 30, 2011 and December 28, 2012 are indicated on a calendar year basis, ended December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. st Exelixis has adopted a 52- or 53-week fiscal year that generally ends on the Friday closest to December 31 Some of the statements under the captions Risk Factors, Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Business and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking statements. These statements are based on our current expectations, assumptions, estimates and projections about our business and our industry and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our company or our industry results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied in, or contemplated by, the forward-looking statements. Words such as believe, anticipate, expect, intend, plan, focus, assume, goal, objective, will, may, should, would, could, estimate, predict, potential, continue, encouraging or the negative of such terms or other similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Our actual results and the timing of events may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such a difference include those discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors as well as those discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These and many other factors could affect our future financial and operating results. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events after the date of this report. PART I Table of Contents 1 94 SIGNATURES 93 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules Item 15. PART IV 93 Principal Accounting Fees and Services Item 14. 93 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence Item 13. 91 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 12. 91 Executive Compensation Item 11. 91 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Item 10. PART III 91 Other Information Item 9B. 89 Controls and Procedures Item 9A. 89 Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9. 54 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 8. 53 
