CIK: 1331875
Company Name: FIDELITY NATIONAL FINANCIAL INC 
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2017-02-27
Accession Number: 0001331875-17-000031


Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes thereto and Selected Financial Data included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Overview For a description of our business, including descriptions of segments, see the discussion under Business in Item 1 of Part I of this Report, which is incorporated by reference into this Part II, Item 7 of this Report. Recent Developments On February 27, 2017, Black Knight announced that it has completed the repricing of its existing Term B Facility under its senior secured credit facility (the Repricing ). The Term B Facility was repriced from 300 basis points to 225 basis points over LIBOR. The LIBOR floor remains at 75 basis points. The repriced loans continue to be due in full on May 27, 2022. See Note J to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report for further discussion of the terms of the Black Knight Term B Facility. In conjunction with the Repricing, Black Knight lenders consented to the previously announced tax-free distribution in which we intend to distribute all 83.3 million shares of Black Knight Financial Services, Inc. common stock that we currently own to FNF Group shareholders. On February 1, 2017, our Board of Directors adopted a resolution to increase the size of the of our Board of Directors to twelve and elected Raymond R. Quirk to serve on our Board of Directors. Mr. Quirk is the Chief Executive Officer of FNF and has served in that capacity since December 2013. Previously, he served as the President of FNF beginning in April 2008. Since joining FNF in 1985, Mr. Quirk has served in numerous other executive and management positions, including Executive Vice President, Co-Chief Operating Officer, Division Manager and Regional Manager, with responsibilities for managing direct and agency title operations nationally. On January 31, 2017, Black Knight's Board of Directors authorized a three-year share repurchase program, effective February 3, 2017, under which Black Knight may repurchase up to 10 million shares of its Class A common stock. The timing and volume of share repurchases will be determined by Black Knight's management based on its ongoing assessments of the capital needs of the business, the market price of its common stock and general market conditions. The repurchase program authorizes Black Knight to purchase its common stock from time to time through February 2, 2020, through open market purchases, negotiated transactions or other means, in accordance with applicable securities laws and other restrictions. Effective January 1, 2017, Property Insight ("PI"), a Black Knight subsidiary that provides information used by title insurance underwriters, title agents and closing attorneys to source and underwrite title insurance for real property sales and transfers, realigned its commercial relationship with us. In connection with the realignment, responsibility for title plant posting and maintenance, as well as the related Property Insight employees, are now managed by us. Black Knight will continue to own the title plant technology and retain sales responsibility for third parties. The realignment will not have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. On December 7, 2016, we announced that our Board of Directors approved a tax-free plan (the "Plan") whereby (1) we intend to distribute all 83.3 million shares of Black Knight Financial Services Inc. common stock that we currently own to FNF Group shareholders and (2) we intend to redeem all FNFV shares in exchange for shares of common stock of FNFV. Following the distributions, FNF, FNFV and Black Knight will each be independent, fully-distributed, publicly-traded common stocks, with FNF and FNFV no longer being tracking stocks. The Plan is subject to the receipt of private letter rulings from the Internal Revenue Service approving the distribution of Black Knight and FNFV shares, filing and acceptance of a registration statement for both the Black Knight and FNFV transactions with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the refinancing of Black Knight's senior notes, which are subject to the FNF guarantee, on reasonable terms, Black Knight and FNFV shareholder approvals and other customary closing conditions. The closing of the tax-free distributions of Black Knight and FNFV are not dependent on one another and will occur separately when the aforementioned closing conditions are met. The closing of the distributions is expected by the end of the third quarter of 2017. On August 23, 2016, FNF Group completed its acquisition of Commissions, Inc. ("CINC"), a leading provider of web-based real estate marketing and customer relationship management software for elite Realtors and agent teams across North America, for $229 million . CINC product offerings include software, marketing and services designed to enhance the productivity and sales results of elite Realtors and agent teams through lead generation and proactive lead management. See discussion in Acquisitions in Note B to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Report for further discussion. During the second quarter of 2016 we invested $30 million in CF Corporation ( CF Corp , NYSE: CFCOU), a blank check company co-founded by William P. Foley, the Chairman of our Board of Directors. Mr. Foley also serves as the Co-Executive Chairman of CF Corp. As of December 31, 2016 , our investment in CF Corp has a fair value of $31 million and is included in Equity securities available for sale on the corresponding Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. On May 16, 2016, Black Knight completed its acquisition of eLynx Holdings, Inc. ("eLynx"), a leading lending document and data delivery platform, for $115 million . eLynx helps clients in the financial services and real estate industries electronically 37 Table of Contents capture and manage documents and associated data throughout the document lifecycle. This acquisition positions Black Knight to electronically support the full mortgage origination process. See discussion in Acquisitions in Note B to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Report for further discussion. On May 2, 2016, we purchased certain shares of common and preferred stock of Ceridian Holding, LLC, the ultimate parent of Ceridian, from third-party minority interest holders for $17 million . As a result of this purchase, our ownership of Ceridian increased from 32% to 33% . On April 29, 2016, pursuant to the terms of a certain synthetic lease agreement, dated as of June 29, 2004, as amended on June 27, 2011, we exercised our option to purchase the land and various real property improvements associated with our corporate campus and headquarters in Jacksonville, Florida from SunTrust Bank for $71 million . On March 30, 2016, Ceridian HCM Holding, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Ceridian, completed its offering (the "Offering") of senior convertible preferred shares for aggregate proceeds of $150 million . As part of the Offering, FNF purchased a number of shares equal to its pro-rata ownership in Ceridian for $47 million . FNF's ownership percentage in Ceridian did not change as a result of the transaction. On February 18, 2016, our Board of Directors approved a new FNFV Group three-year stock repurchase program, effective March 1, 2016, under which we may repurchase up to 15 million shares of FNFV Group common stock. Purchases may be made from time to time by us in the open market at prevailing market prices or in privately negotiated transactions through February 28, 2019. Discontinued Operations On December 31, 2014, we completed the distribution (the "Remy Spin-off") of all of the outstanding shares of common stock of our previously owned subsidiary Remy International, Inc. ("New Remy"), a manufacturer and distributer of auto parts, to FNFV shareholders. We've had no continuing involvement in New Remy since the Remy Spin-off. As a result of the Remy Spin-off, the results of New Remy are reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings as discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2014. Total revenue included in discontinued operations was $1,173 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. Pre-tax earnings included in discontinued operations was $6 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. Business Trends and Conditions Title Our Title segment revenue is closely related to the level of real estate activity which includes sales, mortgage financing and mortgage refinancing. Declines in the level of real estate activity or the average price of real estate sales will adversely affect our title insurance revenues. We have found that residential real estate activity is generally dependent on the following factors: mortgage interest rates; mortgage funding supply; and strength of the United States economy, including employment levels. As of February 15, 2017 , the Mortgage Banker's Association ("MBA") estimated the size of the U.S. mortgage originations market as shown in the following table for 2015 - 2019 in its "Mortgage Finance Forecast" (in trillions): 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Purchase transactions $ 1.2 $ 1.2 $ 1.1 $ 1.0 $ 0.9 Refinance transactions 0.4 0.4 0.5 0.9 0.8 Total U.S. mortgage originations $ 1.6 $ 1.6 $ 1.6 $ 1.9 $ 1.7 In 2015 and 2016, total originations were reflective of a generally improving residential real estate market driven by increasing home prices and historically low mortgage interest rates. Over the same period, existing home sales increased and there was a decline in total housing inventory. In 2017 and beyond, increased mortgage interest rates driven by gradual increases in the target federal funds rate are expected to adversely impact mortgage originations. In a rising interest rate environment, refinance transactions are expected to decline. The MBA predicts overall mortgage originations in 2017 through 2019 will decrease compared to the 2015 and 2016 periods due to a decrease in refinance transactions, offset by a slight increase in purchase transactions. Purchase transactions involve the issuance of both a lender policy and an owner policy, resulting in higher fees, whereas refinance transactions only require a lender policy, resulting in lower fees. While projected increases in mortgage interest rates present a potential headwind for mortgage originations, other economic indicators used to measure the health of the United States economy, including the unemployment rate and consumer confidence, have improved in recent years. According to the United States Department of Labor's Bureau of Labor, the unemployment rate has dropped from 7.4% in 2013 to 4.9% in 2016. Additionally, the Conference Board's monthly Consumer Confidence Index has 38 Table of Contents risen sharply at the end of 2016 and into 2017. We believe that improvements in both of these economic indicators, among other indicators which support a generally improving United States economy, present potential tailwinds for mortgage originations and support recent home prices trends. We cannot be certain how, if at all, the positive effects of a change in mix of purchase to refinance transactions and of a generally improving United States economy and the negative effects of projected decreases in overall originations will impact our future results of operations. We continually monitor origination trends and believe that, based on our ability to produce industry leading operating margins through all economic cycles, we are well positioned to adjust our operations for adverse changes in real estate activity. Because commercial real estate transactions tend to be driven by supply and demand for commercial space and occupancy rates in a particular area rather than by interest rate fluctuations, we believe that our commercial real estate title insurance business is less dependent on the industry cycles discussed above than our residential real estate title business. Commercial real estate transaction volume is also often linked to the availability of financing. For several years through 2015, we experienced continual year-over-year increases in the fee per file of commercial transactions. In 2016, we experienced a slight decrease in the volume and fee per file of commercial transactions as compared to 2015. However, as 2015 was a record setting year for our commercial real estate title insurance business, our current year results continue to indicate strong commercial markets. H istorically, real estate transactions have produced seasonal revenue fluctuations in the real estate industry including for title insurers. The first calendar quarter is typically the weakest quarter in terms of revenue due to the generally low volume of home sales during January and February. The third calendar quarter is typically the strongest quarter in terms of revenue, primarily due to a higher volume of home sales in the summer months. The fourth quarter is typically also strong due to the desire of commercial entities to complete transactions by year-end. We have noted short-term fluctuations through recent years in resale and refinance transactions as a result of changes in interest rates. Black Knight The U.S. mortgage market is large, and the loan life cycle is complex and consists of several stages. The mortgage loan life cycle includes origination, servicing and default. Mortgages are originated through home purchases or refinancings of existing mortgages. Once a mortgage is originated, it is serviced on a periodic basis by mortgage servicers, which may not be the lenders that originated the mortgage. Furthermore, if a mortgage experiences default, it triggers a set of multifaceted processes with an assortment of potential outcomes depending on a mix of variables. Underlying the three major components of the mortgage loan life cycle is the technology, data and analytics support behind each process, which has become increasingly critical to industry participants due to the complexity of regulatory requirements. As the industry has grown in complexity, participants have responded by outsourcing to large scale specialty providers, automating manual processes and seeking end-to-end solutions that support the processes required to manage the entire mortgage loan life cycle. Black Knight's various businesses are affected differently by the level of mortgage originations, including refinancing transactions. Black Knight's mortgage servicing platform is less affected by varying levels of mortgage originations because it earns revenues based on the total number of mortgage loans it processes, which tend to stay more constant than the market for originations. Black Knight's origination technology and some of its data businesses are directly affected by the volume of real estate transactions and mortgage originations, but many of Black Knight's client contracts for origination technology contain minimum charges. Black Knight's various businesses are also affected by general economic conditions. For example, in the event that a difficult economy or other factors lead to a decline in levels of home ownership and a reduction in the number of mortgage loans outstanding and we are not able to counter the effect of those events with increased market share or higher fees, it could have a material adverse effect on Black Knight's mortgage processing revenues. In contrast, we believe that a weaker economy tends to increase the volume of consumer mortgage defaults, which can increase the revenues in Black Knight's specialty servicing technology business that is used to service residential mortgage loans in default. Also, interest rates tend to decline in a weaker economy driving higher than normal refinance transactions that provide potential volume increases to Black Knight's origination technology offerings, most specifically its Exchange platform. FNFV Restaurant Group The restaurant industry is highly competitive and is often affected by changes in consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns; changes in general economic conditions; public safety conditions or concerns; demographic trends; weather conditions; the cost of food products, labor, energy and other operating costs; and governmental regulations. The restaurant industry is also characterized by high capital investments for new restaurants and relatively high fixed or semi-variable restaurant operating expenses. Because of the high fixed and semi-variable expenses, changes in sales in existing restaurants are generally expected to significantly affect restaurant profitability because many restaurant costs and expenses are not expected to change at the same 39 Table of Contents rate as sales. Restaurant profitability can also be negatively affected by inflationary and regulatory increases in operating costs and other factors. The most significant commodities that may affect our cost of food and beverage are beef, seafood, poultry, and dairy, which accounted for approximately half of our overall cost of food and beverage in the past. Generally, temporary increases in these costs are not passed on to guests; however, in the past, we have adjusted menu prices to compensate for increased costs of a more permanent nature. Average weekly sales per restaurant are typically higher in the first and fourth quarters than in other quarters, and we typically generate a disproportionate share of our earnings from operations in the first and fourth quarters. Holidays, severe weather and other disruptive conditions may impact sales volumes seasonally in some operating regions. Our revenues in future periods will continue to be subject to these and other factors that are beyond our control and, as a result, are likely to fluctuate. Critical Accounting Estimates The accounting estimates described below are those we consider critical in preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements. Management is required to make estimates and assumptions that can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures with respect to contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual amounts could differ from those estimates. See Note A of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional description of the significant accounting policies that have been followed in preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements. Reserve for Title Claim Losses. Title companies issue two types of policies, owner's and lender's policies, since both the new owner and the lender in real estate transactions want to know that their interest in the property is insured against certain title defects outlined in the policy. An owner's policy insures the buyer against such defects for as long as he or she owns the property (as well as against warranty claims arising out of the sale of the property by such owner). A lender's policy insures the priority of the lender's security interest over the claims that other parties may have in the property. The maximum amount of liability under a title insurance policy is generally the face amount of the policy plus the cost of defending the insured's title against an adverse claim; however, occasionally we do incur losses in excess of policy limits. While most non-title forms of insurance, including property and casualty, provide for the assumption of risk of loss arising out of unforeseen future events, title insurance serves to protect the policyholder from risk of loss for events that predate the issuance of the policy. Unlike many other forms of insurance, title insurance requires only a one-time premium for continuous coverage until another policy is warranted due to changes in property circumstances arising from refinance, resale, additional liens, or other events. Unless we issue the subsequent policy, we receive no notice that our exposure under our policy has ended and, as a result, we are unable to track the actual terminations of our exposures. Our reserve for title claim losses includes reserves for known claims as well as for losses that have been incurred but not yet reported to us ( IBNR ), net of recoupments. We reserve for each known claim based on our review of the estimated amount of the claim and the costs required to settle the claim. Reserves for IBNR claims are estimates that are established at the time the premium revenue is recognized and are based upon historical experience and other factors, including industry trends, claim loss history, legal environment, geographic considerations, and the types of policies written. We also reserve for losses arising from closing and disbursement functions due to fraud or operational error. The table below summarizes our reserves for known claims and incurred but not reported claims related to title insurance: December 31, 2016 % December 31, 2015 % (in millions) Known claims $ 166 11.2 % $ 202 12.8 % IBNR 1,321 88.8 1,381 87.2 Total Reserve for Title Claim Losses $ 1,487 100.0 % $ 1,583 100.0 % Although claims against title insurance policies can be reported relatively soon after the policy has been issued, claims may be reported many years later. Historically, approximately 60% of claims are paid within approximately five years of the policy being written. By their nature, claims are often complex, vary greatly in dollar amounts and are affected by economic and market conditions, as well as the legal environment existing at the time of settlement of the claims. Estimating future title loss payments is difficult because of the complex nature of title claims, the long periods of time over which claims are paid, significantly varying dollar amounts of individual claims and other factors. Our process for recording our reserves for title claim losses begins with analysis of our loss provision rate. We forecast ultimate losses for each policy year based upon historical policy year loss emergence and development patterns and adjust these to reflect policy year and policy type differences which affect the timing, frequency and severity of claims. We also use a technique that relies on historical loss emergence and on a premium-based exposure measurement. The latter technique is particularly applicable 40 Table of Contents to the most recent policy years, which have few reported claims relative to an expected ultimate claim volume. After considering historical claim losses, reporting patterns and current market information, and analyzing quantitative and qualitative data provided by our legal, claims and underwriting departments, we determine a loss provision rate, which is recorded as a percentage of current title premiums. This loss provision rate is set to provide for losses on current year policies, but due to development of prior years and our long claim duration, it periodically includes amounts of estimated adverse or positive development on prior years' policies. Any significant adjustments to strengthen or release loss reserves resulting from the comparison with our actuarial analysis are made in addition to this loss provision rate. At each quarter end, our recorded reserve for claim losses is initially the result of taking the prior recorded reserve for claim losses, adding the current provision and subtracting actual paid claims, resulting in an amount that management then compares to the range of reasonable estimates provided by the actuarial calculation. We recorded our loss provision rate at 5.5% for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and at 5.0% for the three months ended December 31, 2016 . Together with a $97 million adjustment to reduce our prior claims reserves, our average loss provision rate was 3.3% for the year-ended December 31, 2016. Our average loss provision rate was 5.7% and 6.2% for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Of such annual amounts, 5.0%, 5.2% and 5.5% related to losses on policies written in the current year, and the remainder related to developments on prior year policies. The decrease in the loss provision rate during 2015 and 2016 was primarily driven by continued positive development in the more recent policy years. In 2016 , favorable development of prior year losses of $79 million or 1.7% was accounted for in the provision rate. In 2015 and 2014 adverse development of prior year losses of $22 million or 0.5% of 2015 premium and $26 million or 0.7% of 2014 premium was accounted for in the loss provision rate. See Note L to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, Part II of this report for further discussion of the adjustment for prior year loss development made in the current year. Due to the uncertainty inherent in the process and due to the judgment used by both management and our actuary, our ultimate liability may be greater or less than our carried reserves. If the recorded amount is within the actuarial range but not at the central estimate, we assess the position within the actuarial range by analysis of other factors in order to determine that the recorded amount is our best estimate. These factors, which are both qualitative and quantitative, can change from period to period, and include items such as current trends in the real estate industry (which we can assess, but for which there is a time lag in the development of the data), any adjustments from the actuarial estimates needed for the effects of unusually large or small claims, improvements in our claims management processes, and other cost saving measures. If the recorded amount is not within a reasonable range of our actuary's central estimate, we may have to record a charge or credit and reassess the loss provision rate on a go forward basis. We will continue to reassess the provision to be recorded in future periods consistent with this methodology. During the quarter ended December 31, 2016, we released excess title reserves of $97 million in addition to reducing the current quarter to a 5.0% provision for claims losses. The release of excess reserves was due to analysis of historical ultimate loss ratios, the reduced volatility of development of those historical ultimate loss ratios and lower policy year loss ratios in recent years. Due to the recent reduction in volatility of prior year ultimate loss ratios, we felt that actual results were more in line with our actuarial analysis and released excess reserves to bring our recorded position in line with current actuarial projections. The table below presents our title insurance loss development experience for the past three years: 2016 2015 2014 (In millions) Beginning balance $ 1,583 $ 1,621 $ 1,636 Reserve assumed, net (1) 52 Change in reinsurance recoverable (8 ) 1 7 Claims loss provision related to: Current year 236 224 202 Prior years (2) (79 ) 22 26 Total title claims loss provision 157 246 228 Claims paid, net of recoupments related to: Current year (10 ) (7 ) (5 ) Prior years (235 ) (278 ) (297 ) Total title claims paid, net of recoupments (245 ) (285 ) (302 ) Ending balance $ 1,487 $ 1,583 $ 1,621 Title premiums $ 4,723 $ 4,286 $ 3,671 _____________________ (1) Reserve of $54 million was recorded as part of the acquisition of LPS on January 2, 2014, and a reserve of $2 million was released as part of the sale of a small title operation. 41 Table of Contents (2) Reserve of $97 million released in 2016 related to improving development on prior year claim trends. 2016 2015 2014 Provision for claim losses as a percentage of title insurance premiums: Current year 5.0 % 5.2 % 5.5 % Prior years (1.7 ) 0.5 0.7 Total provision 3.3 % 5.7 % 6.2 % Actual claims payments are made up of loss payments and claims management expenses offset by recoupments and were as follows (in millions): Loss Payments Claims Management Expenses Recoupments Net Loss Payments Year ended December 31, 2016 $ 179 $ 121 $ (55 ) $ 245 Year ended December 31, 2015 211 137 (63 ) 285 Year ended December 31, 2014 207 151 (56 ) 302 As of December 31, 2016 and 2015 , our recorded reserves were $ 1,487 million and $ 1,583 million , respectively, which we determined were reasonable and represented our best estimate and these recorded amounts were within a reasonable range of the central estimates provided by our actuaries. Our recorded reserves were equal to the mid-point of the provided range of our actuarial estimates of $1.3 billion and $1.7 billion as of December 31, 2016 . Our recorded reserves were $86 million above the mid-point of the range of our actuarial estimates as of December 31, 2015 . During 2016 and 2015, payment patterns were consistent with our actuaries' and management's expectations. Also, compared to prior years we have seen a leveling off of the ultimate loss ratios in more mature policy years, particularly 2005-2008. While we still see claims opened on these policy years, the proportion of our claims inventory represented by these policy years has continued to decrease. Additionally, we continued to see positive development relating to the 2009 through 2015 policy years, which we believe is indicative of more stringent underwriting standards by us and the lending industry. Further, we have seen significant positive development in residential owner's policies due to increased payments on residential lender's policies which inherently limit the potential loss on the related owner's policy to the differential in coverage amount between the amount insured under the owner's policy and the amount paid under the residential lender's policy. Also, any residential lender 's policy claim paid relating to a property that is in foreclosure negates any potential loss under an owner's policy previously issued on the property as the owner has no equity in the property. Along with the positive development on claims management expenses, our ending open claim inventory decreased from approximately 17,000 claims at December 31, 2015 to approximately 15,000 claims at December 31, 2016 . If actual claims loss development varies from what is currently expected and is not offset by other factors, it is possible that our recorded reserves may fall outside a reasonable range of our actuaries' central estimate, which may require additional reserve adjustments in future periods. An approximate $ 47 million increase (decrease) in our annualized provision for title claim losses would occur if our loss provision rate were 1% higher (lower), based on 2016 title premiums of $4,723 million . A 10% increase (decrease) in our reserve for title claim losses, as of December 31, 2016 , would result in an increase (decrease) in our provision for title claim losses of approximately $ 149 million. Valuation of Investments. We regularly review our investment portfolio for factors that may indicate that a decline in fair value of an investment is other-than-temporary. Some factors considered in evaluating whether or not a decline in fair value is other-than-temporary include: (i) our intent and need to sell the investment prior to a period of time sufficient to allow for a recovery in value; (ii) the duration and extent to which the fair value has been less than cost; and (iii) the financial condition and prospects of the issuer. Such reviews are inherently uncertain and the value of the investment may not fully recover or may decline in future periods resulting in a realized loss. Investments are selected for analysis whenever an unrealized loss is greater than a certain threshold that we determine based on the size of our portfolio or by using other qualitative factors. Fixed maturity investments that have unrealized losses caused by interest rate movements are not at risk as we do not anticipate having the need or intent to sell prior to maturity. Unrealized losses on investments in equity securities, preferred stock and fixed maturity instruments that are susceptible to credit related declines are evaluated based on the aforementioned factors. Currently available market data is considered and estimates are made as to the duration and prospects for recovery, and the intent or ability to retain the investment until such recovery takes place. These estimates are revisited quarterly and any material degradation in the prospect for recovery will be considered in the other-than-temporary impairment analysis. We believe that our monitoring and analysis has provided for the proper recognition of other-than-temporary impairments over the past three-year period. Any change in estimate in this area will have an impact on the results of operations of the period in which a charge is taken. 42 Table of Contents The fair value hierarchy established by the standard on fair value includes three levels, which are based on the priority of the inputs to the valuation technique. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3). If the inputs used to measure the financial instruments fall within different levels of the hierarchy, the categorization is based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement of the instrument. In accordance with the standard on fair value, our financial assets and liabilities that are recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets are categorized based on the inputs to the valuation techniques as follows: Level 1. Financial assets and liabilities whose values are based on unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in an active market that we have the ability to access. Level 2. Financial assets and liabilities whose values are based on quoted prices in markets that are not active or model inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly for substantially the full term of the asset or liability. Level 3. Financial assets and liabilities whose values are based on model inputs that are unobservable. The following table presents our fair value hierarchy for those assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively: December 31, 2016 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total (In millions) Assets: Fixed-maturity securities available for sale: U.S. government and agencies $ $ 117 $ $ 117 State and political subdivisions 615 615 Corporate debt securities 1,533 1,533 Foreign government bonds 109 109 Mortgage-backed/asset-backed securities 58 58 Preferred stock available for sale 32 283 315 Equity securities available for sale 438 438 Total assets $ 470 $ 2,715 $ $ 3,185 December 31, 2015 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total (In millions) Assets: Fixed-maturity securities available for sale: U.S. government and agencies $ $ 117 $ $ 117 State and political subdivisions 768 768 Corporate debt securities 1,495 1,495 Foreign government bonds 107 107 Mortgage-backed/asset-backed securities 71 71 Preferred stock available for sale 42 247 289 Equity securities available for sale 334 11 345 Total assets $ 376 $ 2,816 $ $ 3,192 Our Level 2 fair value measures for fixed-maturities available for sale are provided by third-party pricing services. We utilize one firm for our taxable bond and preferred stock portfolios and another for our tax-exempt bond portfolio. These pricing services are leading global providers of financial market data, analytics and related services to financial institutions. We rely on one price for each instrument to determine the carrying amount of the assets on our balance sheet. The inputs utilized in these pricing methodologies include observable measures such as benchmark yields, reported trades, broker dealer quotes, issuer spreads, two sided markets, benchmark securities, bids, offers and reference data including market research publications. We review the pricing methodologies for all of our Level 2 securities by obtaining an understanding of the valuation models and assumptions used by 43 Table of Contents the third-party as well as independently comparing the resulting prices to other publicly available measures of fair value and internally developed models. The pricing methodologies used by the relevant third party pricing services are as follows: U.S. government and agencies: These securities are valued based on data obtained for similar securities in active markets and from inter-dealer brokers. State and political subdivisions: These securities are valued based on data obtained for similar securities in active markets and from inter-dealer brokers. Factors considered include relevant trade information, dealer quotes and other relevant market data. Corporate debt securities: These securities are valued based on dealer quotes and related market trading activity. Factors considered include the bond's yield, its terms and conditions, and any other feature which may influence its risk and thus marketability, as well as relative credit information and relevant sector news. Foreign government bonds: These securities are valued based on a discounted cash flow model incorporating observable market inputs such as available broker quotes and yields of comparable securities. Mortgage-backed/asset-backed securities: These securities are comprised of agency mortgage-backed securities, collateralized mortgage obligations, and asset-backed securities. They are valued based on available trade information, dealer quotes, cash flows, relevant indices and market data for similar assets in active markets. Preferred stocks: Preferred stocks are valued by calculating the appropriate spread over a comparable U.S. Treasury security. Inputs include benchmark quotes and other relevant market data. Equity securities available for sale: This security is valued using a blending of two models, a discounted cash flow model and a comparable company model utilizing earnings and multiples of similar publicly-traded companies. As of December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 we held no assets nor liabilities measured at fair value using Level 3 inputs. During the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , we incurred impairment charges relating to investments that were determined to be other-than-temporarily impaired of $19 million , $14 million , and $6 million , respectively. Refer to Note D to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, Part II of this Report for further discussion. Included in our Investments as of December 31, 2016 are various holdings in foreign securities as follows (in millions): Carrying Value Cost Basis Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Market Value (In millions) Available for sale securities: Australia $ 22 $ 22 $ $ 22 Belgium 41 40 1 41 Canada 46 50 1 (5 ) 46 China 8 8 8 France 19 19 19 Germany 46 46 46 Ireland 39 39 39 Japan 67 67 67 South Korea 8 8 8 Netherlands 5 5 5 Norway 10 10 10 New Zealand 74 78 (4 ) 74 Switzerland 9 9 9 United Kingdom 68 68 68 Total $ 462 $ 469 $ 2 $ (9 ) $ 462 We have reviewed all of these securities as of December 31, 2016 and do not believe that there is a risk of significant credit loss as these securities are in a gross unrealized gain position of $2 million and a gross unrealized loss position of $9 million . We held no European sovereign debt at December 31, 2016 . Goodwill. We have made acquisitions that have resulted in a significant amount of goodwill. As of December 31, 2016 and 2015 , goodwill aggregated was $ 5,065 million and $ 4,756 million, respectively. The majority of our goodwill as of December 31, 2016 relates to goodwill recorded in connection with the LPS acquisition on January 2, 2014, as well as the Chicago Title merger 44 Table of Contents in 2000. Refer to Note F to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, Part II of this Report for a summary of recent changes in our Goodwill balance. In evaluating the recoverability of goodwill, we perform a qualitative analysis to determine whether it is more likely than not that our fair value exceeds our carrying value. Based on the results of this analysis, an annual goodwill impairment test may be completed based on an analysis of the discounted future cash flows generated by the underlying assets. The process of determining whether or not goodwill is impaired or recoverable relies on projections of future cash flows, operating results and market conditions. Future cash flow estimates are based partly on projections of market conditions such as the volume and mix of refinance and purchase transactions and interest rates, which are beyond our control and are likely to fluctuate. While we believe that our estimates of future cash flows are reasonable, these estimates are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ from what is assumed in our impairment tests. Such analyses are particularly sensitive to changes in estimates of future cash flows and discount rates. Changes to these estimates might result in material changes in fair value and determination of the recoverability of goodwill, which may result in charges against earnings and a reduction in the carrying value of our goodwill in the future.We have completed our annual goodwill impairment analysis in each of the past three years and as a result, no impairment charges were recorded to goodwill in 2016 , 2015 , or 2014 . As of December 31, 2016 , we have determined that our goodwill has a fair value which substantially exceeds our carrying value. Other Intangible Assets. We have other intangible assets, not including goodwill, which consist primarily of customer relationships and contracts and trademarks which are generally recorded in connection with acquisitions at their fair value. Intangible assets with estimable lives are amortized over their respective estimated useful lives to their estimated residual values and reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. In general, customer relationships are amortized over their estimated useful lives using an accelerated method which takes into consideration expected customer attrition rates. Contractual relationships are generally amortized over their contractual life. Trademarks are generally considered intangible assets with indefinite lives and are reviewed for impairment at least annually. We recorded $1 million and $11 million in impairment expense to other intangible assets during the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2014 . The impairment in 2016 was for customer relationships and tradenames at our real estate subsidiaries in our Core Corporate & Other segment.The impairment in 2014 was to tradenames in our Restaurant Group. We recorded no impairment expense related to other intangible assets in the year ended December 31, 2015 . Title Revenue Recognition. Our direct title insurance premiums and escrow, title-related and other fees are recognized as revenue at the time of closing of the related transaction as the earnings process is then considered complete. Premium revenues from agency operations and agency commissions include an accrual based on estimates using historical information of the volume of transactions that have closed in a particular period for which premiums have not yet been reported to us. The accrual for agency premiums is necessary because of the lag between the closing of these transactions and the reporting of these policies to us by the agent. Historically, the time lag between the closing of these transactions by our agents and the reporting of these policies, or premiums, to us has been up to 15 months, with 86 - 91% reported within three months following closing, an additional 9 - 11% reported within the next three months and the remainder within seven to fifteen months. In addition to accruing these earned but unreported agency premiums, we also accrue agent commission expense, which was 76.1% , of agent premiums earned in 2016 , 76.0% of agent premiums earned in 2015 and 75.7% of agent premiums earned in 2014 . We also record a provision for claim losses at our average provision rate at the time we record the accrual for the premiums, which was 5.4% , excluding the release of excess reserves relating to prior years of $97 million, for 2016 , 5.7% for 2015 and 6.2% for 2014 , and accruals for premium taxes and other expenses relating to our premium accrual. The resulting impact to pretax earnings in any period is approximately 11% of the accrued premium amount. The impact of the change in the accrual for agency premiums and related expenses on our pretax earnings was an increase of $ 4 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 , a decrease of $ 5 million for the year ended 2015 and a decrease of $ 9 million for the year ended 2014 . The amount due from our agents relating to this accrual, i.e., the agent premium less their contractual retained commission, was approximately $ 53 million and $ 45 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, which represents agency premiums of approximately $ 267 million and $ 230 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, and agent commissions of $ 214 million and $ 185 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. We may have changes in our accrual for agency revenue in the future if additional relevant information becomes available. Black Knight Revenue Recognition. In our Black Knight segment, we recognize revenues in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB"), Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 605, Revenue Recognition ("ASC 605"). Recording revenues requires judgment, including determining whether an arrangement includes multiple elements, whether any of the elements are essential to the functionality of any other elements and the allocation of the consideration based on each element relative selling price. Clients receive certain contract elements over time and changes to the elements in an arrangement or, in our determination, to the relative selling price for these elements, could materially affect the amount of earned and unearned revenues reflected in our financial statements. The primary judgments relating to revenue recognition include determining whether (i) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (ii) delivery has occurred or services have been rendered; (iii) the seller price to the buyer is fixed or determinable; and 45 Table of Contents (iv) collectability is reasonably assured. Judgment is also required to determine whether an arrangement involving more than one deliverable contains more than one unit of accounting and how the arrangement consideration should be measured and allocated to the separate units of accounting. If the deliverables under a contract are software related, Black Knight determines the appropriate units of accounting and how the arrangement consideration should be measured and allocated to the separate units. This determination, as well as management ability to establish vendor specific objective evidence ("VSOE") of the fair value for the individual deliverables, can affect both the amount and the timing of revenue recognition under these agreements. The inability to establish VSOE of the fair value for each contract deliverable results in having to record deferred revenues and/or applying the residual method. For arrangements where we determine VSOE of the fair value for software maintenance using a stated renewal rate within the contract, Black Knight uses judgment to determine whether the renewal rate represents fair value for that element as if it had been sold on a stand-alone basis. For a small percentage of revenues, Black Knight uses contract accounting when the arrangement with the client includes significant customization, modification or production of software. For elements accounted for under contract accounting, revenues are recognized using the percentage-of-completion method since reasonably dependable estimates of revenues and contract hours applicable to various elements of a contract can be made. Black Knight is often party to multiple concurrent contracts with the same client. These situations require judgment to determine whether the individual contracts should be aggregated or evaluated separately for purposes of revenue recognition. In making this determination Black Knight considers the timing of negotiating and executing the contracts, whether the different elements of the contracts are interdependent and whether any of the payment terms of the contracts are interrelated. Due to the large number, broad nature and average size of individual contracts Black Knight is a party to, the effect of judgments and assumptions applied in recognizing revenues for any single contract is not likely to have a material effect on our Black Knight segment or our consolidated operations. However, the broader accounting policy assumptions that Black Knight applies across similar arrangements or classes of clients could significantly influence the timing and amount of revenues recognized in our results of operations. Accounting for Income Taxes. As part of the process of preparing the consolidated financial statements, we are required to determine income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves estimating actual current tax expense together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing recognition of items for income tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred income tax assets and liabilities, which are included within the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We must then assess the likelihood that deferred income tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income and, to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, establish a valuation allowance. To the extent we establish a valuation allowance or increase this allowance in a period, we must reflect this increase as expense within Income tax expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Determination of income tax expense requires estimates and can involve complex issues that may require an extended period to resolve. Further, the estimated level of annual pre-tax income can cause the overall effective income tax rate to vary from period to period. We believe that our tax positions comply with applicable tax law and that we adequately provide for any known tax contingencies. We believe the estimates and assumptions used to support our evaluation of tax benefit realization are reasonable. Final determination of prior-year tax liabilities, either by settlement with tax authorities or expiration of statutes of limitations, could be materially different than estimates reflected in assets and liabilities and historical income tax provisions. The outcome of these final determinations could have a material effect on our income tax provision, net income or cash flows in the period that determination is made. Capitalized Software. Capitalized software includes the fair value of software acquired in business combinations, purchased software and capitalized software development costs. Purchased software is recorded at cost and amortized using the straight-line method over its estimated useful life. Software acquired in business combinations is recorded at its fair value and amortized using straight-line or accelerated methods over its estimated useful life, ranging from 5 to 10 years. In our Black Knight segment we have significant internally developed software. These costs are amortized using the straight-line or an accelerated method over the estimated useful life. Useful lives of computer software range from 3 to 10 years. For software products to be sold, leased, or otherwise marketed, all costs incurred to establish the technological feasibility are research and development costs, and are expensed as they are incurred. Costs incurred subsequent to establishing technological feasibility, such as programmers' salaries and related payroll costs and costs of independent contractors, are capitalized and amortized on a product by product basis commencing on the date of general release to customers. We do not capitalize any costs once the product is available for general release to customers. For internal-use computer software products, internal and external costs incurred during the preliminary project stage are expensed as they are incurred. Internal and external costs incurred during the application development stage are capitalized and amortized on a product by product basis commencing on the date the software is ready for its intended use. We do not capitalize any costs once the software is ready for its intended use. We also assess the recorded value of computer software for impairment on a regular basis by comparing the carrying value to the estimated future cash flows to be generated by the underlying software asset. There is an inherent uncertainty in determining the expected useful life of or cash flows to be generated from computer software. We did not record any impairments for software 46 Table of Contents in the year ended December 31, 2016 . We recorded impairment charges of $1 million and $5 million in the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, for abandoned software development projects. Certain Factors Affecting Comparability Year ended December 31, 2015. On September 28, 2015 we distributed all of our shares of J. Alexander's to the holders of FNFV Group Common Stock. As a result of this distribution, the results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2015 include the results from J. Alexander's through the date of the distribution. Year ended December 31, 2014. On January 2, 2014, we completed the purchase of LPS. As a result of this acquisition we began to consolidate the results of LPS effective January 3, 2014. On December 31, 2014, we distributed all of our shares in Remy to the holders of FNFV Group Common Stock. As a result of this distribution, the operations for Remy are presented as discontinued operations for all periods presented. 47 Table of Contents Results of Operations Consolidated Results of Operations Net earnings. The following table presents certain financial data for the years indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 (Dollars in millions) Revenue: Direct title insurance premiums $ 2,097 $ 2,009 $ 1,727 Agency title insurance premiums 2,626 2,277 1,944 Escrow, title-related and other fees 3,546 3,324 2,804 Restaurant revenue 1,158 1,412 1,436 Interest and investment income 129 123 126 Realized gains and losses, net (2 ) (13 ) (13 ) Total revenue 9,554 9,132 8,024 Expenses: Personnel costs 2,832 2,671 2,540 Agent commissions 1,998 1,731 1,471 Other operating expenses 1,944 1,881 1,643 Cost of restaurant revenue 984 1,195 1,220 Depreciation and amortization 431 410 403 Provision for title claim losses 157 246 228 Interest expense 136 131 127 Total expenses 8,482 8,265 7,632 Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in (loss) earnings of unconsolidated affiliates 1,072 867 392 Income tax expense 372 290 312 Equity in (loss) earnings of unconsolidated affiliates (8 ) (16 ) 432 Net earnings from continuing operations $ 692 $ 561 $ 512 Revenues. Total revenue in 2016 increased $422 million compared to 2015 , primarily due to an increase in closed order volumes in our direct title business, increases in agent remittances, increased revenue in our Black Knight segment, and increased revenue associated with growth and acquisitions at OneDigital . Total revenue in 2015 increased $1,108 million compared to 2014 , primarily due to an increase in closed order volumes in our direct title business, increases in agent remittances, an increase in revenue in our Black Knight segment, and increases related to businesses acquired in 2015 and late 2014. Total net earnings from continuing operations increased $131 million in the year ended December 31, 2016 , compared to the 2015 period. The increase consisted of a $138 million increase at FNF Group and a $7 million decrease at FNFV. Total net earnings from continuing operations increased $ 49 million in the year ended December 31, 2015 , compared to the 2014 period. The increase consisted of a $310 million increase at FNF Group and a $261 million decrease at FNFV. The change in revenue and net earnings is discussed in further detail at the segment level below. Interest and investmen t income levels are primarily a function of securities markets, interest rates and the amount of cash available for investment. Interest and investment income was $129 million , $123 million , and $126 million for the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 , and 2014 , respectively. The increase in 2016 as compared to 2015 is primarily attributable to increased yield on our fixed maturity holdings and increased dividend income on our equity and preferred securities, offset by a decrease in average invested assets. The decrease in 2015 as compared to 2014 is due to decreased bond yields and a change in portfolio mix. The effective return on average invested assets, excluding realized gains and losses, was 3.6% , 3.4% , and 3.6% for the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 , and 2014 , respectively. Net realized losses totaled $2 million , $13 million , and $13 million for the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 , and 2014 , respectively. The net realized losses for the year ended December 31, 2016 included a realized gain of $15 million related to the disposition of an other long term investment, $12 million for gains on sales of available for sale investments, and a gain of $2 million related to the favorable outcome of litigation. The gains were more than offset by losses of $13 million on impairments of available for sale investments, $3 million for impairment of an equity method investment, losses of $6 million related to 48 Table of Contents impairments of other assets at our Restaurant Group, $4 million for losses on disposal of fixed assets, a loss of $3 million on the impairment of an other long-term investment, a $1 million loss related to the impairment of an other intangible asset, and $1 million in realized losses related to other individually insignificant items. The net realized loss for the year ended December 31, 2015 included a net realized gain of $1 million on our investment portfolio, net realized gains of $16 million due to favorable settlement of litigation, net realized losses of $19 million due to impairment of long-lived assets at our Restaurant Group, net realized losses of $5 million on early redemption of Black Knight corporate bonds, and $6 million of miscellaneous other net realized losses. The net realized loss for the year ended December 31, 2014 includes net realized gains of $9 million on the sales of various investments and gains of $11 million on consolidation of previously owned minority interests. These gains were offset by a $6 million impairment write down on bonds, asset impairments of $25 million, and $2 million in losses on other individually insignificant items. Expenses. Our operating expenses consist primarily of personnel costs; other operating expenses, which in our title business are incurred as orders are received and processed and at Black Knight are incurred for data processing; agent commissions, which are incurred as revenue is recognized; and cost of restaurant revenue. Title insurance premiums, escrow and title-related fees are generally recognized as income at the time the underlying transaction closes or other service is provided. Direct title operations revenue often lags approximately 45-60 days behind expenses and therefore gross margins may fluctuate. The changes in the market environment, mix of business between direct and agency operations and the contributions from our various business units have historically impacted margins and net earnings. We have implemented programs and have taken necessary actions to maintain expense levels consistent with revenue streams. However, a short time lag exists in reducing variable costs and certain fixed costs are incurred regardless of revenue levels. Personnel costs include base salaries, commissions, benefits, stock-based compensation and bonuses paid to employees, and are one of our most significant operating expenses. Personnel costs that are directly attributable to the operations of the Restaurant Group are included in Cost of restaurant revenue. Agent commissions represent the portion of premiums retained by our third-party agents pursuant to the terms of their respective agency contracts. Other operating expenses consist primarily of facilities expenses, title plant maintenance, premium taxes (which insurance underwriters are required to pay on title premiums in lieu of franchise and other state taxes), appraisal fees and other cost of sales on ServiceLink product offerings and other title related products, postage and courier services, computer services, professional services, travel expenses, general insurance, and bad debt expense on our trade and notes receivable. Cost of restaurant revenue includes cost of food and beverage, primarily the costs of beef, groceries, produce, seafood, poultry and alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages, net of vendor discounts and rebates, payroll and related costs and expenses directly relating to restaurant level activities, and restaurant operating costs including occupancy and other operating expenses at the restaurant level. The provision for title claim losses includes an estimate of anticipated title and title-related claims, and escrow losses. The change in expenses from the FNF Core segments and FNFV segments is discussed in further detail at the segment level below. Income tax expense was $372 million , $290 million , and $312 million for the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 , and 2014 , respectively. Income tax expense as a percentage of earnings from continuing operations before income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 , and 2014 was 34.7% , 33.4% , and 79.6% , respectively. The increase in the effective tax rate in 2016 from 2015 is primarily related to lower tax exempt interest income, tax credits and an increase in non-deductible expenses. The decrease in the effective tax rate in 2015 from 2014 is primarily related to reduced taxes associated with the reduction in Equity in (loss) earnings of unconsolidated affiliates. The fluctuation in income tax expense as a percentage of earnings from continuing operations before income taxes is attributable to our estimate of ultimate income tax liability and changes in the characteristics of net earnings year to year, such as the weighting of operating income versus investment income. Equity in (loss) earnings of unconsolidated affiliates was $(8) million , $(16) million , and $432 million for the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 , and 2014 , respectively, and consisted of our equity in the net (loss) earnings of Ceridian and other investments in unconsolidated affiliates. The decrease in equity in losses in 2016 from 2015 is primarily related to lower net losses at Ceridian and increased earnings for various other of our equity method investments. The decrease in equity in earnings in 2015 from in 2014 is primarily due to our $495 million portion of the Ceridian gain on the sale of Comdata to Fleetcor in 2014. 49 Table of Contents Segment Results of Operations FNF Core Operations Title The following table presents the results of our Title segment for the years indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 (In millions) Revenues: Direct title insurance premiums $ 2,097 $ 2,009 $ 1,727 Agency title insurance premiums 2,626 2,277 1,944 Escrow, title-related and other fees 2,128 2,005 1,855 Interest and investment income 127 123 122 Realized gains and losses, net 14 (4 ) Total revenue 6,978 6,428 5,644 Expenses: Personnel costs 2,214 2,090 1,896 Other operating expenses 1,436 1,381 1,370 Agent commissions 1,998 1,731 1,471 Depreciation and amortization 148 144 145 Provision for title claim losses 157 246 228 Total expenses 5,953 5,592 5,110 Earnings before income taxes $ 1,025 $ 836 $ 534 Orders opened by direct title operations (in 000's) 2,184 2,092 1,914 Orders closed by direct title operations (in 000's) 1,575 1,472 1,319 Total revenues in 2016 increased $550 million or 9% compared to 2015 . Total revenues in 2015 increased $784 million or 14% compared to 2014 . The increase in the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 is primarily attributable to improvements in the overall real estate markets driving increases in closed order volumes, increased remittances from agents, and revenue associated with acquisitions. The following table presents the percentages of title insurance premiums generated by our direct and agency operations: Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Amount % Amount % Amount % (Dollars in millions) Title premiums from direct operations $ 2,097 44.4 % $ 2,009 46.9 % $ 1,727 47.0 % Title premiums from agency operations 2,626 55.6 2,277 53.1 1,944 53.0 Total title premiums $ 4,723 100.0 % $ 4,286 100.0 % $ 3,671 100.0 % Title premiums increased 10% in the year ended December 31, 2016 as compared to the 2015 period. The increase was made up of an increase in premiums from direct operations of $88 million , or 4% and an increase in premiums from agency operations of $349 million , or 15% . Title premiums increased 16.8% in the year ended December 31, 2015 as compared to the 2014 period. The increase was made up of an increase in premiums from direct operations of $282 million or 16% , and an increase in premiums from agency operations of $333 million , or 17% . 50 Table of Contents The following table presents the percentages of opened and closed title insurance orders generated by purchase and refinance transactions by our direct operations: Year ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Opened title insurance orders from purchase transactions (1) 53.5 % 54.0 % 57.4 % Opened title insurance orders from refinance transactions (1) 46.5 46.0 42.6 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Closed title insurance orders from purchase transactions (1) 54.1 % 54.5 % 58.6 % Closed title insurance orders from refinance transactions (1) 45.9 45.5 41.4 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % _______________________________________ (1) Percentages exclude consideration of an immaterial number of non-purchase and non-refinance orders. Title premiums from direct operations increased in 2016 , primarily due to an increase in closed order volumes as compared to the prior year. Closed order volumes were 1,575,000 in the year ended December 31, 2016 compared with 1,472,000 in the year ended December 31, 2015 . This represented an increase of 7% . The increase in closed order volumes was primarily related to an increase in purchase and refinance transactions in the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the 2015 period. The average fee per file in our direct operations was $2,065 in both the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 . The flat average fee per file year over year reflects a stable average fee per file in both commercial and residential transactions driven by a consistent proportion of refinance to purchase transactions. The fee per file tends to change as the mix of refinance and purchase transactions changes, because purchase transactions involve the issuance of both a lender policy and an owner policy, resulting in higher fees, whereas refinance transactions only require a lender policy, resulting in lower fees. The increase in title premiums from agency operations is primarily the result of an increase in overall mortgage origination trends, an increase in remitted agency premiums due to strength in agency driven real estate markets and an increase in the number of independent agents with which we transacted business period over period. Escrow, title related and other fees increased by $123 million , or 6% , in the year ended December 31, 2016 from the 2015 period. Escrow fees, which are more directly related to our direct operations, increased $102 million, or 15%, in the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the 2015 period. The increase is primarily driven by the related increase in direct title premiums. Other fees in the Title segment, excluding escrow fees, increased $21 million, or 1%, in the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the 2015 period. The increase in other fees was primarily attributable to revenue growth associated with our home warranty businesses as well as acquisitions made in the current year. Escrow, title related and other fees increased by $150 million , or 8% , in the year ended December 31, 2015 from the 2014 period. Escrow fees, which are more directly related to our direct operations, increased $111 million, or 19%, in the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the 2014 period. The increase is consistent with the increase in direct title premiums. Other fees in the Title segment, excluding escrow fees, increased $39 million, or 3%, in the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the 2014 period. The increase in other fees was primarily attributable to revenue associated with Buyers Protection Group, acquired in 2015. Interest and investment income levels are primarily a function of securities markets, interest rates and the amount of cash available for investment. Interest and investment income increased $4 million in the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the 2015 period and increased $1 million in the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the 2014 period. Personnel costs include base salaries, commissions, benefits, stock-based compensation and bonuses paid to employees, and are one of our most significant operating expenses. The $124 million , or 6% increase in the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the 2015 period is primarily related to additional expense associated with the increased order volumes and acquisitions in the current year. The $194 million , or 10% increase in the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the 2014 period is primarily related to additional expense associated with the increased order volumes, acquisitions in the 2015 period, and increased costs associated with the implementation of TRID. Personnel costs as a percentage of total revenues from direct title premiums and escrow, title-related and other fees was 52% for both years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 . Average employee count in the Title segment was 21,999 and 20,819 in the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Other operating expenses increased $55 million , or 4% in the year ended December 31, 2016 from the 2015 period. Other operating expenses increased consistently with the increase in direct title premiums and escrow, title-related and other fee income offset by other miscellaneous cost reductions. Other operating expenses increased $11 million , or 1% in the year 51 Table of Contents ended December 31, 2015 from the 2014 period. Other operating expenses increased consistently with the increase in direct title premiums and escrow, title-related and other fee income offset by other miscellaneous cost reductions. Agent commissions represent the portion of premiums retained by agents pursuant to the terms of their respective agency contracts. Agent commissions and the resulting percentage of agent premiums we retain vary according to regional differences in real estate closing practices and state regulations. The following table illustrates the relationship of agent title premiums and agent commissions: Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Amount % Amount % Amount % (Dollars in millions) Agent title premiums $ 2,626 100.0 % $ 2,277 100.0 % $ 1,944 100.0 % Agent commissions 1,998 76.1 1,731 76.0 1,471 75.7 Net retained agent premiums $ 628 23.9 % $ 546 24.0 % $ 473 24.3 % Net margin from agency title insurance premiums retained as a percentage of total agency premiums in the year ended December 31, 2016 remained consistent with the 2015 and 2014 periods. The provision for title claim losses includes an estimate of anticipated title and title-related claims and escrow losses. T he estimate of anticipated title and title-related claims is accrued as a percentage of title premium revenue based on our historical loss experience and other relevant factors. Any significant adjustments to strengthen or release loss reserves resulting from the comparison with our actuarial analysis are made in addition to this loss provision rate. After considering historical claim losses, reporting patterns and current market information, and analyzing quantitative and qualitative data provided by our legal, claims and underwriting departments, we determine a loss provision rate, which is recorded as a percentage of current title premiums. This loss provision rate is set to provide for losses on current year policies, but due to development of prior years and our long claim duration, it periodically includes amounts of estimated adverse or positive development on prior years' policies. Effective July 1, 2015, we revised our loss provision rate to 5.5% from 6% and effective October 1, 2016, we revised our loss provision rate to 5.0% from 5.5% primarily due to favorable development on more recent policy year claims. The claim loss provision for title insurance was $157 million , $246 million , and $228 million for the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 , and 2014 , respectively. These amounts reflected average claim loss provision rates of 3.3% for 2016 , 5.7% for 2015 , and 6.2% of title premiums for 2014 . The decrease in the provision in 2016 reflects the release of excess title reserves of $97 million as well as a reduction in the loss provision rate from 5.5% to 5.0% in the fourth quarter of 2016. The release of excess reserves and change in provision rate was due to analysis of historical ultimate loss ratios, the reduced volatility of development of those historical ultimate loss ratios and lower policy year loss ratios in recent years. We will continue to monitor and evaluate our loss provision level, actual claims paid, and the loss reserve position each quarter. Black Knight The following table presents the results of our Black Knight segment for the years indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Revenues: Escrow, title related and other fees $ 1,026 $ 931 $ 852 Realized gains and losses, net (5 ) Total revenues 1,026 926 852 Expenses: Personnel costs 396 382 449 Other operating expenses 197 161 199 Depreciation and amortization 208 194 188 Interest expense 64 50 31 Total expenses 865 787 867 Earnings (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes $ 161 $ 139 $ (15 ) Total revenues for the Black Knight segment increased $100 million in the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the 2015 period. The increase was primarily driven by higher average loan volumes on its mortgage servicing platform, price increases and new client wins in its servicing technology business; by prior year client implementations, higher transaction volumes, and 52 Table of Contents the acquisition of eLynx, offset by lower professional services revenue in its origination technology business; and by current year acquisitions offset by lower upfront revenues from long-term strategic license deals in its data and analytics business. Total revenues for the Black Knight segment increased $74 million in the year ended 2015 compared to the 2014 period. The increase was driven by higher loan counts as well as increased usage and communication fees in its servicing technology business; by increased professional services and processing revenues from loan origination systems clients and revenues from Closing Insight clients in its origination technology business; and by additional revenue from long-term strategic license deals in its data and analytics segment. Personnel costs increased by $14 million , or 4% in the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the 2015 period. The increase was primarily driven by current period acquisitions and by higher compensation and employee-related costs as it expanded certain corporate functions in 2016 to support continued growth. Personnel costs decreased by $67 million , or 15% in the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the 2014 period. The decrease was primarily driven by increased costs in the 2014 period associated with the acquisition and integration of LPS. Other operating expenses increased by $36 million , or 22% , in the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the 2015 period. The increase was primarily driven by current period acquisitions and lower capitalized software development and deferred implementation costs. Other operating expenses decreased by $38 million , or 19% , in the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the 2014 period. The decrease was primarily driven by increased costs in the 2014 period associated with the acquisition and integration of LPS. Depreciation and amortization increased by $14 million , or 7% , in the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the 2015 period. The increase was primarily driven by the amortization of deferred contract costs relating to client implementations, including accelerated amortization related to certain deferred implementation costs, the amortization from new software development, offset by lower amortization of customer relationship assets. Interest expense increased $14 million in the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the 2015 period. Interest expense increased $19 million in the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the 2014 period. The increase in both periods is attributable to new third party debt issued in connection with Black Knight's initial public offering in May 2015. Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes increased $22 million in the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the 2015 period. The increase is primarily attributable to the increased revenue discussed above. Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes increased $154 million in the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the 2014 period. The increase is primarily attributable to the increased revenue and decreased expenses discussed above. FNF Core Corporate and Other The FNF Core Corporate and Other segment consists of the operations of the parent holding company, certain other unallocated corporate overhead expenses, and other real estate operations. This segment also includes the operations of CINC acquired in the third quarter of 2016. Also included in this segment are eliminations of revenues and expenses between our other core segments. The FNF Core Corporate and Other segment generated revenues of $215 million , $180 million and $(6) million for the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. The increase in the year ended December 31, 2016 is primarily driven by growth at our real estate companies and current period acquisitions. The increase in the year ended December 31, 2015 from the 2014 period was primarily driven by revenue of $183 million from Pacific Union, a luxury real estate broker based in California in which we acquired a controlling stake in December 2014. Other operating expenses in the FNF Core Corporate and Other segment were $204 million , $172 million and $(12) million for the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. The increase in the 2016 period from 2015 is due to growth of our real estate subsidiaries and current period acquisitions. The increase in the 2015 period from 2014 is primarily due to expenses of $162 million from Pacific Union. Interest expense was $62 million , $72 million and $91 million for the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. The decrease in all periods is attributable to the payoff of the the FNF term loan in May 2015 upon the initial public offering of Black Knight. This segment generated pretax losses of $122 million , $113 million and $113 million for the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. 53 Table of Contents FNFV Restaurant Group The results of operations for the Restaurant Group for the year ended December 31, 2015 include the results of J. Alexander's through September 28, 2015, the date it was distributed to common shareholders of FNFV and of the Max & Erma's concept, which was sold pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement on January 25, 2016. The following table presents the results from operations of our Restaurant Group segment: Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 (In millions) Revenues: Restaurant revenue $ 1,158 $ 1,412 $ 1,436 Realized gains and losses, net (6 ) (19 ) (13 ) Total revenues 1,152 1,393 1,423 Expenses: Personnel costs 53 65 69 Cost of restaurant revenue 984 1,195 1,220 Other operating expenses 67 71 61 Depreciation and amortization 42 49 52 Interest expense 5 6 8 Total expenses 1,151 1,386 1,410 Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes $ 1 $ 7 $ 13 Total revenues for the Restaurant group segment decreased $241 million , or 17% in the year ended December 31, 2016 from the 2015 period and are primarily attributable to our distribution of J. Alexander's to shareholders in September 2015 and the sale of Max and Erma's in January 2016. Total revenues for the Restaurant group segment decreased $30 million , or 2% in the year ended December 31, 2015 from the 2014 period primarily due to the inclusion of the results of J. Alexander's through September 28, 2015 compared to the full calendar year 2014. Cost of restaurant revenue decreased $211 million or 18% in the year ended December 31, 2016 from the 2015 period. Cost of restaurant revenue decreased $25 million or 2% in the year ended December 31, 2015 from the 2014 period. The change in both periods is consistent with the change in total revenue. Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes decreased $6 million in the year ended December 31, 2016 from the 2015 period and in the year ended December 31, 2015 from the 2014 period. FNFV Corporate and Other The FNFV Corporate and Other segment consists of the operations of the parent holding company including OneDigital, operations of our unconsolidated investment in Ceridian, certain other unallocated corporate overhead expenses, and other smaller investments. The FNFV Corporate and Other segment generated revenues of $183 million , $205 million , and $111 million f or the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 , and 2014 , respectively. Revenues decreased $22 million in 2016 compared to 2015 primarily due the inclusion of revenue related to the sale of Cascade Timberlands in the 2015, offset by revenue growth at OneDigital and acquisitions in 2016. Revenues increased in the 2015 period compared to 2014 primarily due to $85 million of revenue recorded related to the sale of Cascade Timberlands in January 2015 and increased revenue at OneDigital resulting from 2015 acquisitions. Personnel costs were $111 million , $92 million , and $101 million in the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 , and 2014 , respectively. The increase in the 2016 period of $19 million is primarily attributable to acquisitions and growth at OneDigital. The decrease of $9 million in the 2015 period from 2014 is primarily due to the inclusion of $19 million of expense related to our Investment Success Incentive Program in the 2014 period, offset by increased costs related to 2015 acquisitions. Other operating expenses for the FNFV Corporate and Other segment were $40 million, $96 million, and $25 million in the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014, respectively. The decrease in the 2016 period from 2015 and the increase in the 2015 period from 2014 is primarily attributable to $73 million in expense recorded in 2015 related to the sale of Cascade Timberlands. The decrease in the 2016 period was offset by increased expenses related to current period acquisitions. 54 Table of Contents This segment generated pretax earnings (losses) of $7 million , $(2) million , and $(27) million for the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 , and 2014 , respectively. The increase each period is attributable to the aforementioned changes in revenues and other operating expenses. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Requirements. Our current cash requirements include personnel costs, operating expenses, claim payments, taxes, payments of interest and principal on our debt, capital expenditures, business acquisitions, stock repurchases and dividends on our common stock. We paid dividends of $ 0.88 per share during 2016 , or approximately $ 239 million. On February 1, 2017 , our Board of Directors formally declared a $0.25 per share cash dividend that is payable on March 31, 2017 to FNF Group shareholders of record as of March 17, 2017 . There are no restrictions on our retained earnings regarding our ability to pay dividends to shareholders, although there are limits on the ability of certain subsidiaries to pay dividends to us, as described below. The declaration of any future dividends is at the discretion of our Board of Directors. Additional uses of cash flow are expected to include stock repurchases, acquisitions, and debt repayments. We continually assess our capital allocation strategy, including decisions relating to the amount of our dividend, reducing debt, repurchasing our stock, and/or conserving cash. We believe that all anticipated cash requirements for current operations will be met from internally generated funds, through cash dividends from subsidiaries, cash generated by investment securities, potential sales of non-strategic assets, and borrowings on existing credit facilities. Our short-term and long-term liquidity requirements are monitored regularly to ensure that we can meet our cash requirements. We forecast the needs of all of our subsidiaries and periodically review their short-term and long-term projected sources and uses of funds, as well as the asset, liability, investment and cash flow assumptions underlying such forecasts. Our insurance subsidiaries generate cash from premiums earned and their respective investment portfolios and these funds are adequate to satisfy the payments of claims and other liabilities. Due to the magnitude of our investment portfolio in relation to our claims loss reserves, we do not specifically match durations of our investments to the cash outflows required to pay claims, but do manage outflows on a shorter time frame. Our two significant sources of internally generated funds are dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries. As a holding company, we receive cash from our subsidiaries in the form of dividends and as reimbursement for operating and other administrative expenses we incur. The reimbursements are paid within the guidelines of management agreements among us and our subsidiaries. Our insurance subsidiaries are restricted by state regulation in their ability to pay dividends and make distributions. Each state of domicile regulates the extent to which our title underwriters can pay dividends or make distributions. As of December 31, 2016 , $2,149 million of our net assets were restricted from dividend payments without prior approval from the relevant departments of insurance. During 2017 , our title insurance subsidiaries can pay or make distributions to us of approximately $372 million. Our underwritten title companies and non-ti tle insurance subsidiaries collect revenue and pay operating expenses. However, they are not regulated to the same extent as our insurance subsidiaries. Three of the Company title insurance underwriters, Fidelity National Title Insurance Company, Chicago Title Insurance Company and Commonwealth Land Title Insurance Company, have filed applications to redomesticate from their existing states of domicile to a new state of domicile. The anticipated redomestications are subject to prior regulatory approval, which may be received in the first quarter of 2017. If the anticipated redomestications are approved, the Company may receive a special dividend from the title insurance underwriters in 2017 related to such redomestication. This special dividend would be due in part to differences in the laws among the states of domicile. The maximum dividend permitted by law is not necessarily indicative of an insurer actual ability to pay dividends, which may be constrained by business and regulatory considerations, such as the impact of dividends on surplus, which could affect an insurer ratings or competitive position, the amount of premiums that can be written and the ability to pay future dividends. Further, depending on business and regulatory conditions, we may in the future need to retain cash in our underwriters or even contribute cash to one or more of them in order to maintain their ratings or their statutory capital position. Such a requirement could be the result of investment losses, reserve charges, adverse operating conditions in the current economic environment or changes in interpretation of statutory accounting requirements by regulators. Cash flow from FNF's core operations is expected to be used for general corporate purposes including to reinvest in core operations, repay debt, pay dividends, repurchase stock, other strategic initiatives or conserving cash. We are focused on evaluating our FNFV assets and investments as potential vehicles for creating liquidity. Our intent is to use that liquidity for general corporate purposes, including potentially reducing debt, repurchasing shares of our stock, other strategic initiatives and/or conserving cash. 55 Table of Contents Our cash flows provided by oper ations for the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 , and 2014 were $1,162 million , $951 million and $594 million , respectively. The increase in cash provided by operations of $211 million from 2016 to 2015 is primarily attributable to increased earnings from operations before equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates of $123 million , lower claims payments of $40 million, and lower payments in the 2016 period under our executive investment success bonus program of $27 million, offset by increased payments for income taxes in 2016 compared to 2015 of $118 million. The remaining change in the 2016 period from the 2015 period is attributable to timing of receivables and payables. The change in 2015 from 2014 is primarily due to increased earnings from operations before equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates of $497 million and lower claims payments of $17 million, offset by increased payments for income taxes in 2015 compared to 2014 of $175 million. The remaining change in the 2015 period from the 2014 period is attributable to timing of receivables and payables. Capital Expenditures. Total capital expenditures for property and equipment and capitalized software were $290 million , $241 million and $210 million for the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 , and 2014 , respectively. The 2016 period consists of capital expenditures of $147 million in our Title segment, $80 million in our Black Knight segment, $50 million in our Restaurant Group segment, and $13 million in other FNFV Group expenditures. The increase in the 2016 period from the 2015 period is primarily due to the purchase of our corporate headquarters for $71 million in the second quarter of 2016, offset by miscellaneous reductions in spending on capital expenditures in our Title and Black Knight segments. The increase in the 2015 period from the 2014 period is primarily attributable to increased investments in property and equipment in our Title segment and increased expenditures on property and equipment and software at Black Knight. Financing. For a description of our financing arrangements see Note J to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Report, which is incorporated by reference into this Part II, Item 7. Seasonality. H istorically, real estate transactions have produced seasonal revenue levels for the real estate industry including title insurers. The first calendar quarter is typically the weakest quarter in terms of revenue due to the generally low volume of home sales during January and February. The third calendar quarter has been typically the strongest in terms of revenue primarily due to a higher volume of home sales in the summer months and the fourth quarter is usually also strong due to commercial entities desiring to complete transactions by year-end. We have noted short term fluctuations through recent years in resale and refinance transactions as a result of changes in interest rates. In our Restaurant Group, average weekly sales per restaurant are typically higher in the first and fourth quarters, and we typically generate a disproportionate share of our earnings from operations in the first and fourth quarters. Holidays, severe weather and other disruptive conditions may impact sales volumes seasonally in some operating regions. Contractual Obligations. Our long term contractual obligations generally include our loss reserves, our credit agreements and other debt facilities, operating lease payments on certain of our premises and equipment and purchase obligations of the Restaurant Group. As of December 31, 2016 , our required annual payments relating to these contractual obligations were as follows: 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Thereafter Total (In millions) Notes payable $ 377 $ 392 $ 180 $ 686 $ 4 $ 1,127 $ 2,766 Operating lease payments 206 175 144 110 78 209 922 Pension and other benefit payments 18 17 16 15 14 100 180 Title claim losses 221 212 173 147 95 639 1,487 Unconditional purchase obligations 228 78 17 9 1 333 Interest on fixed rate notes payable 64 53 45 45 45 44 296 Total $ 1,114 $ 927 $ 575 $ 1,012 $ 237 $ 2,119 $ 5,984 As of December 31, 2016 , we had title insurance reserves of $1,487 million . The amounts and timing of these obligations are estimated and are not set contractually. While we believe that historical loss payments are a reasonable source for projecting future claim payments, there is significant inherent uncertainty in this payment pattern estimate because of the potential impact of changes in: future mortgage interest rates, which will affect the number of real estate and refinancing transactions and, therefore, the rate at which title insurance claims will emerge; the legal environment whereby court decisions and reinterpretations of title insurance policy language to broaden coverage could increase total obligations and influence claim payout patterns; 56 Table of Contents events such as fraud, escrow theft, multiple property title defects, foreclosure rates and individual large loss events that can substantially and unexpectedly cause increases in both the amount and timing of estimated title insurance loss payments; and loss cost trends whereby increases or decreases in inflationary factors (including the value of real estate) will influence the ultimate amount of title insurance loss payments. Based on historical title insurance claim experience, we anticipate the above payment patterns. The uncertainty and variation in the timing and amount of claim payments could have a material impact on our cash flows from operations in a particular period. The Restaurant Group has unconditional purchase obligations with various vendors. These purchase obligations are primarily food and beverage obligations with fixed commitments in regards to the time period of the contract and the quantities purchased with annual price adjustments that can fluctuate. We used both historical and projected volume and pricing as of December 31, 2016 to determine the amount of the obligations. Black Knight has data processing and maintenance commitments with various vendors. We used current outstanding contracts with the vendors to determine the amount of the obligations. We sponsor multiple pension plans and other post-retirement benefit plans. See Note O of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Report for further information. Capital Stock Transactions. On October 28, 2014, our Board of Directors approved a three-year stock purchase program, effective November 6, 2014, under which we can repurchase up to 10 million shares of our FNFV Group common stock through November 30, 2017. We exhausted all available repurchases under this program during February 2016. On February 18, 2016, our Board of Directors approved a new FNFV Group three-year stock repurchase program, effective March 1, 2016, under which we may repurchase up to 15 million shares of FNFV Group common stock through February 28, 2019. We may make repurchases from time to time in the open market, in block purchases or in privately negotiated transactions, depending on market conditions and other factors. In the year ended December 31, 2016 , we repurchased a total of 5,651,518 shares for $62 million , or an average of $10.94 per share under these programs. Since the original commencement of the plan adopted February 18, 2016, we have repurchased a total of 3,955,000 shares for $45 million , or an average of $11.40 per share, and there are 11,045,000 shares available to be repurchased under this program. On July 20, 2015, our Board of Directors approved a new three-year stock repurchase program under which we can purchase up to 25 million shares of our FNF Group common stock through July 30, 2018. We may make repurchases from time to time in the open market, in block purchases or in privately negotiated transactions, depending on market conditions and other factors. In the year ended December 31, 2016 , we repurchased a total 6,014,000 FNF Group shares under this program for $206 million , or an average price of $34.26 per share. Since the original commencement of the plan, we have repurchased a total of 10,589,000 FNF Group common shares for $372 million , or an average of $35.10 per share, and there are 14,411,000 shares available to be repurchased under this program. Equity Security and Preferred Stock Investments. Our equity security and preferred stock investments may be subject to significant volatility. Should the fair value of these investments fall below our cost basis and/or the financial condition or prospects of these companies deteriorate, we may determine in a future period that this decline in fair value is other-than-temporary, requiring that an impairment loss be recognized in the period such a determination is made. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. We do not engage in off-balance sheet activities other than our escrow operations. In conducting our operations, we routinely hold customers assets in escrow, pending completion of real estate transactions. Certain of these amounts are maintained in segregated bank accounts and have not been included in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets, consistent with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and industry practice. We have a contingent liability relating to proper disposition of these balances for our customers, which amounted to $ 14.0 billion and $14.3 billion at December 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. As a result of holding these customers assets in escrow, we have ongoing programs for realizing economic benefits during the year through favorable borrowing and vendor arrangements with various banks. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For a description of recent accounting pronouncements, see Note S of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this report. 
