CIK: 1428336
Company Name: HEALTHEQUITY INC 
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2025-03-18
Accession Number: 0001428336-25-000009


Item 7. Management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs, and involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results and the timing of certain events could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of several factors, including those discussed in the section titled Risk factors included under Part I, Item 1A and elsewhere in this report. See Special note regarding forward-looking statements on page 1 of this Annual Report. Overview We are a leader and an innovator in providing technology-enabled services that empower consumers to make healthcare saving and spending decisions. We use our innovative technology to manage consumers' tax-advantaged HSAs and other CDBs offered by employers, including FSAs and HRAs, and to administer COBRA, commuter and other benefits. As part of our services, we provide consumers with payment processing services, personalized benefit information, the ability to earn wellness incentives, and investment advice to grow their tax-advantaged healthcare savings. The core of our offerings is the HSA, a financial account through which consumers spend and save long-term for healthcare expenses on a tax-advantaged basis. As of January 31, 2025, we administered 9.9 million HSAs, with balances totaling $32.1 billion, which we call HSA Assets, as well as 7.1 million complementary CDBs. We refer to the aggregate number of HSAs and other CDBs that we administer as Total Accounts, of which we had 17.0 million as of January 31, 2025. We reach consumers primarily through relationships with their employers, which we call Clients. We reach Clients primarily through relationships with benefits brokers and advisors, integrated partnerships with a network of health plans, benefits administrators, benefits brokers and consultants, and retirement plan recordkeepers, which we call Network Partners, and a sales force that calls on Clients directly. As of January 31, 2025, our platforms were integrated with more than 200 Network Partners. We have increased our share of the growing HSA market from 4% in December 2010 to 21% as of June 2024, measured by HSA Assets. According to the 2024 Midyear Devenir HSA Research Report, as of June 2024, we were the largest HSA provider by both accounts and HSA Assets. In addition, we believe we are the largest provider of other CDBs. We seek to differentiate ourselves through our service-driven culture, product breadth, ecosystem connectivity, and proprietary technology. Our proprietary technology allows us to help consumers optimize the value of their HSAs and other CDBs and gain confidence and skills in managing their healthcare costs as part of their financial security. Our ability to assist consumers is enhanced by our capacity to securely share data in both directions with others in the health, benefits, and retirement ecosystems. Our commuter benefits offering also leverages connectivity to an ecosystem of mass transit, ride hailing, and parking providers. We earn revenue primarily from three sources: service, custodial, and interchange. We earn service revenue mainly from fees paid by our Network Partners, Clients, and members for the administration services we provide in connection with the HSAs and other CDBs we offer. We earn custodial revenue primarily from HSA cash held by our federally insured bank and credit union partners, which we collectively call our Depository Partners, HSA cash held by our insurance company partners, and Client-held funds deposited with our Depository Partners. We earn interchange revenue mainly from fees paid by merchants on payments that our members make using our physical payment cards and on our virtual payment system. See Key components of our results of operations for additional information on our sources of revenue. Recent acquisitions HealthSavings HSA portfolio acquisition. In March 2022, we acquired the HealthSavings HSA portfolio, which consisted of $1.3 billion of HSA Assets held in approximately 87,000 HSAs in exchange for a purchase price of $60 million in cash. -31- Table of Contents BenefitWallet HSA portfolio acquisition. In fiscal 2025, we acquired the BenefitWallet HSA portfolio, comprised of approximately 616,000 HSAs plus other accounts and $2.7 billion of HSA Assets, from Conduent for a purchase price of $425.0 million. We paid the purchase price using $225.0 million of borrowings under our revolving credit facility, with the remainder paid using cash on hand. Key factors affecting our performance We believe that our future performance will be driven by a number of factors, including those identified below. Each of these factors presents both significant opportunities and significant risks to our future performance. See also the section entitled Risk factors included in Part 1, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other reports filed with the SEC. Our acquisition and integration strategy We have historically acquired HSA portfolios and businesses that strengthen our service offerings. We plan to continue this growth strategy and are regularly engaged in evaluating different opportunities. We have developed an internal capability to source, evaluate, and integrate acquired HSA portfolios. Our success depends in part on our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses and HSA portfolios with our business in an efficient and effective manner. Structural change in U.S. health insurance We derive revenue primarily from healthcare-related saving and spending by consumers in the U.S., which are driven by changes in the broader healthcare industry, including the structure of health insurance. The average family premium for employer-sponsored health insurance has risen by 24% since 2019 and 52% since 2014, resulting in increased participation in HSA-qualified health plans and HSAs and increased consumer cost-sharing in health insurance more generally. We believe that continued growth in healthcare costs and related factors will spur continued growth in HSA-qualified health plans and HSAs and may encourage policy changes making HSAs or similar vehicles available to new populations such as individuals in Medicare. However, the timing and impact of these and other developments in U.S. healthcare are uncertain. Moreover, changes in healthcare policy, such as "Medicare for all" plans, could materially and adversely affect our business in ways that are difficult to predict. Trends in U.S. tax law Tax law has a profound impact on our business. Our offerings to members, Clients, and Network Partners consist primarily of services enabled, mandated, or advantaged by provisions of U.S. tax law and regulations. Changes in tax policy are speculative and may affect our business in ways that are difficult to predict. Our client base Our business model is based on a B2B2C distribution strategy, whereby we work with Network Partners and Clients to reach consumers to increase the number of our members with HSA accounts and complementary CDBs. We believe that there are significant opportunities to expand the scope of services that we provide to our current Clients. Broad distribution footprint We believe we have a diverse distribution footprint to attract new Clients and Network Partners. Our sales force calls on enterprise and regional employers in industries across the U.S., as well as potential Network Partners from among health plans, benefits administrators, and retirement plan record keepers. Our Network Partners are a key channel through which we gain access to Clients and members. Our Network Partners collectively employ thousands of sales representatives and account managers who promote both the Network Partners' products and our products and services. Our sales representatives and account management teams work with and train the sales representatives and account management teams of our Network Partners. Product breadth We are the largest custodian and administrator of HSAs, as well as a market-share leader in each of the major categories of complementary CDBs, including FSAs and HRAs, COBRA and commuter benefits administration. Our Clients and their benefits advisors increasingly seek HSA providers that can deliver an integrated offering of HSAs and complementary CDBs. With our CDB capabilities, we can provide employers with a single partner for both HSAs and complementary CDBs, which is preferred by the vast majority of employers, according to research conducted for us by Aite Group. We believe that the combination of HSA and complementary CDB offerings significantly strengthens our value proposition to employers, health benefits brokers and consultants, and Network Partners as a leading single-source provider. -32- Table of Contents Interest rates As a non-bank custodian, our members custodial HSA cash assets are held by either our federally insured Depository Partners (our "Basic Rates" offering), pursuant to contractual arrangements we have with these Depository Partners, or by our insurance company partners through group annuity contracts or other similar arrangements (our "Enhanced Rates" offering). For the reasons described below, we have encouraged our members to place more of their HSA cash in our Enhanced Rates offering. As our Basic Rates contracts expire, the HSA cash held in those Basic Rates contracts will transition to Enhanced Rates contracts, subject to our members retaining the right to keep their HSA cash in Basic Rates. The lengths of our agreements with Depository Partners typically range from three to five years and may have fixed or variable interest rate terms. The terms of new and renewing agreements with our Depository Partners are impacted by the then-prevailing interest rate environment, which in turn is driven by macroeconomic factors and government policies over which we have no control. Such factors, and the response of our competitors to them, also determine the amount of interest retained by our members. HSA members who place their HSA cash into our Enhanced Rates offering retain a higher yield compared to our Basic Rates offering. An increase in the percentage of HSA cash held in our Enhanced Rates offering also positively impacts our custodial revenue, as we generally receive a higher yield on HSA cash held by our insurance company partners compared to cash held by our Depository Partners. As with our Depository Partners, yields paid by our insurance company partners are impacted by the prevailing interest rate environment, which in turn is driven by macroeconomic factors and government policies over which we have no control. Such factors, and the response of our competitors to them, also determine the amount of interest retained by our members. We believe that increased participation in our Enhanced Rates offering, diversification of Depository Partners and insurance company partners, varied contract terms, and other factors reduce our exposure to short-term fluctuations in prevailing interest rates and mitigate the short-term impact of sustained increases or declines in prevailing interest rates on our custodial revenue. Over longer periods, sustained shifts in prevailing interest rates affect the amount of custodial revenue we can realize on custodial assets and the interest retained by our members. Interest on our revolving credit facility changes frequently due to variable interest rate terms, and as a result, our interest expense is expected to fluctuate based on changes in prevailing interest rates. Our proprietary technology We believe that innovations incorporated in our technology differentiate us from our competitors and help drive our growth by enabling us to better assist consumers to make healthcare saving and spending decisions and maximize the value of their tax-advantaged benefits. Our full suite of CDB offerings complements our HSA solution and enhances our leadership position within the HSA sector. We are currently investing in a modernization of our proprietary technology platforms to support new opportunities and enhance security, privacy and platform infrastructure, while maintaining existing applications, features, and services. For example, we are making investments in the architecture and infrastructure of the technology that we use to provide our services to improve our transaction processing capabilities and support continued account and transaction growth, as well as in data-driven personalized engagement to help our members spend less, save more, and build wealth for retirement. In addition, we are investing in technology solutions to meet the evolving needs of our members, Clients and Network Partners. Our current innovation efforts include, among others, increasing member and client self-service capabilities, developing APIs, driving electronic communication rather than paper, increasing straight-through processing, improving overall process times utilizing both traditional robotic process automation, and increasingly through AI tools including the Expedited Claims tool, leveraging chip-enabled stacked cards, and mobile wallet. Our Purple culture A successful healthcare consumer needs education and guidance delivered by people as well as by technology. The education and customer service we provide is driven by our Purple culture, which we believe is a significant factor in our ability to attract and retain customers and to address opportunities in the rapidly changing healthcare sector. We invest in and intend to continue to invest in human capital through technology-enabled training, career development, and advancement opportunities. Our competition and industry Our direct competitors are HSA custodians and other CDB providers. Many of these are state or federally chartered banks and other financial institutions for which we believe benefits administration services are not a core business. Some of our direct competitors (including well-known retail investment companies, such as Fidelity Investments, and healthcare service companies such as UnitedHealth Group's Optum and Webster Bank ) are in a position to -33- Table of Contents devote more resources to the development, sale, and support of their products and services than we have at our disposal. Our other CDB administration competitors include health insurance carriers, human resources consultants and outsourcers, payroll providers, national CDB specialists, regional third-party administrators, and commercial banks. In addition, numerous indirect competitors, including benefits administration service providers, partner with banks and other HSA custodians to compete with us. Our Network Partners and ecosystem partners may also choose to offer competitive services directly, as some health plans have done. Our success depends on our ability to predict and react quickly to these and other industry and competitive dynamics. Regulatory environment Federal law and regulations, including the Affordable Care Act, the Internal Revenue Code, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act and Department of Labor regulations, and public health regulations that govern the provision of health insurance and provide the tax advantages associated with our services, play a pivotal role in determining our market opportunity. Privacy and data security-related laws such as the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, or HIPAA, and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, laws governing the provision of investment advice to consumers, such as the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, or the Advisers Act, the USA PATRIOT Act, anti-money laundering laws, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, all play a similar role in determining our competitive landscape. In addition, state-level regulations also have significant implications for our business in some cases. For example, our subsidiary HealthEquity Trust Company is regulated by the Wyoming Division of Banking, and several states are considering, or have already passed, new privacy regulations that can affect our business. Various states also have laws and regulations that impose additional restrictions on our collection, storage, and use of personally identifiable information. Privacy regulation in particular has become a priority issue in many states, including, for example, the California Privacy Rights Act. Our ability to predict and react quickly to relevant legal and regulatory trends and to correctly interpret their market and competitive implications is important to our success. Key financial and operating metrics We regularly review a number of key operating and financial metrics to evaluate our business, determine the allocation of our resources, make decisions regarding corporate strategies, and evaluate forward-looking projections and trends affecting our business. We discuss certain of these key financial metrics, including revenue, below in the section entitled Key components of our results of operations. In addition, we utilize other key metrics as described below. For a discussion related to key financial and operating metrics for fiscal year 2024 compared to fiscal year 2023, refer to Part II, Item 7. Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in our fiscal year 2024 Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on March 22, 2024. Total Accounts The following table sets forth our HSAs, CDBs, and Total Accounts as of and for the periods indicated: (in thousands, except percentages) January 31, 2025 January 31, 2024 % Change HSAs 9,889 8,692 14 % New HSAs from sales - Quarter-to-date 471 497 (5) % New HSAs from sales - Year-to-date 1,040 949 10 % New HSAs from acquisitions - Year-to-date 616 * HSAs with investments 753 610 23 % CDBs 7,144 7,006 2 % Total Accounts 17,033 15,698 9 % Average Total Accounts - Quarter-to-date 16,677 15,318 9 % Average Total Accounts - Year-to-date 16,302 15,105 8 % * Not meaningful The number of our HSAs and CDBs are key metrics because our revenue is driven by the amount we earn from them. The number of our HSAs increased by 1.2 million, or 14%, from January 31, 2024 to January 31, 2025, driven by new HSAs from sales and new HSAs added through the BenefitWallet HSA portfolio acquisition. The number of our CDBs increased by 0.1 million, or 2%, from January 31, 2024 to January 31, 2025, primarily driven by an increase in HRA accounts. -34- Table of Contents HSA Assets The following table sets forth HSA Assets as of and for the periods indicated: (in millions, except percentages) January 31, 2025 January 31, 2024 % Change HSA cash $ 17,435 $ 15,006 16 % HSA investments 14,676 10,208 44 % Total HSA Assets 32,111 25,214 27 % Average daily HSA cash - Quarter-to-date 16,634 14,210 17 % Average daily HSA cash - Year-to-date $ 16,206 $ 14,071 15 % HSA Assets includes our HSA members custodial assets, which consists of the following components: (i) HSA cash, which includes member cash held by our Depository Partners and our insurance company partners, and (ii) HSA investments, which includes member investments held by our custodial investment partner. Measuring HSA Assets is important because our custodial revenue is directly affected by average daily custodial balances for HSA Assets that are revenue generating. HSA cash increased by $2.4 billion, or 16%, from January 31, 2024 to January 31, 2025, due to HSA cash added through the BenefitWallet HSA portfolio acquisition and net HSA contributions from new and existing HSA members, partially offset by transfers to HSA investments. HSA investments increased by $4.5 billion, or 44%, from January 31, 2024 to January 31, 2025, due to the increased market value of invested balances, transfers from HSA cash, and HSA investments added through the BenefitWallet HSA portfolio acquisition. Total HSA Assets increased by $6.9 billion, or 27%, from January 31, 2024 to January 31, 2025, primarily due to the increased market value of invested balances, HSA Assets added through the BenefitWallet HSA portfolio acquisition, and net HSA contributions from new and existing HSA members. The following table summarizes the amount of HSA cash held by our Depository Partners and insurance company partners that is expected to reprice by fiscal year and the respective average annualized yield currently earned on that HSA cash as of January 31, 2025: Year ending January 31, (in billions, except percentages) HSA cash expected to reprice Average annualized yield 2026 $ 2.3 2.5 % 2027 4.1 1.9 % 2028 2.1 4.0 % 2029 1.5 3.6 % Thereafter 6.6 4.4 % Total (1) $ 16.6 3.4 % (1) Excludes $0.8 billion of HSA cash held in floating-rate contracts as of January 31, 2025. Client-held funds (in millions, except percentages) January 31, 2025 January 31, 2024 % Change Client-held funds $ 896 $ 842 6 % Average daily Client-held funds - Quarter-to-date 798 791 1 % Average daily Client-held funds - Year-to-date 817 845 (3) % Client-held funds are interest-earning deposits from which we generate custodial revenue. These deposits are amounts remitted by Clients and held by us on their behalf to pre-fund and facilitate administration of CDBs. We deposit the Client-held funds with our Depository Partners in interest-bearing demand deposit accounts that have a floating interest rate and no set term or duration. Client-held funds fluctuate depending on the timing of funding and spending of CDB balances and the number of CDBs we administer. Adjusted EBITDA We define Adjusted EBITDA, which is a non-GAAP financial metric, as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, amortization of acquired intangible assets, stock-based compensation expense, merger integration expenses, acquisition costs, gains and losses on equity securities, amortization of incremental costs to obtain a contract, costs associated with unused office space, and certain other non-operating items. We believe that -35- Table of Contents Adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors and analysts in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and our board of directors because it reflects operating profitability before consideration of non-operating expenses and non-cash expenses and serves as a basis for comparison against other companies in our industry. The following table presents a reconciliation of net income, the most comparable GAAP financial measure, to Adjusted EBITDA for the periods indicated: Year ended January 31, (in thousands) 2025 2024 Net income $ 96,703 $ 55,712 Interest income (13,914) (12,138) Interest expense 60,634 55,455 Income tax provision 19,331 19,328 Depreciation and amortization 50,573 60,315 Amortization of acquired intangible assets 111,878 92,763 Stock-based compensation expense 96,425 77,151 Merger integration expenses 40,535 10,435 Amortization of incremental costs to obtain a contract 6,745 5,435 Costs associated with unused office space 3,244 4,179 Other (403) 538 Adjusted EBITDA $ 471,751 $ 369,173 The following table sets forth our net income as a percentage of revenue: Year ended January 31, (in thousands, except percentages) 2025 2024 $ Change % Change Net income $ 96,703 $ 55,712 $ 40,991 74% As a percentage of revenue 8 % 6 % The $41.0 million, or 74%, increase in net income from the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024 to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 was primarily due to an increase in total revenue, partially offset by an increase in operating expenses, including the settlement of a lawsuit related to a lease termination (the "Lease Settlement"), as described in Note 6 Commitments and contingencies to our financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and an increase in cost of revenue, including increased costs incurred to reimburse and protect members from outside fraud activity. For additional information, refer to the section entitled "Results of operations." The following table sets forth our Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of revenue: Year ended January 31, (in thousands, except percentages) 2025 2024 $ Change % Change Adjusted EBITDA $ 471,751 $ 369,173 $ 102,578 28 % As a percentage of revenue 39 % 37 % The $102.6 million, or 28%, increase in Adjusted EBITDA from the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024 to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 was primarily due to an increase in total revenue, partially offset by increases in personnel-related costs, professional fees, and costs incurred to reimburse and protect members from outside fraud activity. Our use of Adjusted EBITDA, including as a percentage of revenue, has limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Non-GAAP net income Non-GAAP net income is calculated by adding back to GAAP net income before income taxes the following items: amortization of acquired intangible assets, stock-based compensation expense, merger integration expenses, acquisition costs, gains and losses on equity securities, costs associated with unused office space, and losses on extinguishment of debt, and subtracting a non-GAAP tax provision using a normalized non-GAAP tax rate. We -36- Table of Contents believe that non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share provide useful information to investors and analysts in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and our board of directors because these non-GAAP metrics reflect operating profitability before consideration of certain non-operating expenses and non-cash expenses and serve as a basis for comparison against other companies in our industry. The following table presents a reconciliation of net income, the most comparable GAAP financial measure, to non-GAAP net income for the periods indicated: Year ended January 31, (in thousands, except per share data) 2025 2024 Net income $ 96,703 $ 55,712 Income tax provision 19,331 19,328 Income before income taxes - GAAP 116,034 75,040 Non-GAAP adjustments: Amortization of acquired intangible assets 111,878 92,763 Stock-based compensation expense 96,425 77,151 Merger integration expenses 40,535 10,435 Costs associated with unused office space 3,244 4,179 Loss on extinguishment of debt 1,576 1,157 Total adjustments to income before income taxes - GAAP 253,658 185,685 Income before income taxes - Non-GAAP 369,692 260,725 Income tax provision - Non-GAAP (1) 92,423 65,180 Non-GAAP net income 277,269 195,545 Diluted weighted-average shares 88,828 86,957 GAAP net income per diluted share $ 1.09 $ 0.64 Non-GAAP net income per diluted share $ 3.12 $ 2.25 (1) The Company utilizes a normalized non-GAAP tax rate to provide better consistency across the interim reporting periods within a given fiscal year by eliminating the effects of non-recurring and period-specific items, which can vary in size and frequency, and which are not necessarily reflective of the Company longer-term operations. The normalized non-GAAP tax rate applied to each period presented was 25%. The Company may adjust its non-GAAP tax rate as additional information becomes available and in conjunction with any other significant events occurring that may materially affect this rate, such as merger and acquisition activity, changes in business outlook, or other changes in expectations regarding tax regulations. The $81.7 million, or 42%, increase in non-GAAP net income from the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024 to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 was primarily due to an increase in total revenue, partially offset by increases in personnel-related costs, professional fees, and costs incurred to reimburse and protect members from outside fraud activity. Our use of non-GAAP net income has limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Key components of our results of operations Revenue We generate revenue from three primary sources: service revenue, custodial revenue, and interchange revenue. Service revenue. We earn service revenue from the fees we charge our Network Partners, Clients, and members for the administration services we provide in connection with the HSAs and other CDBs we offer. With respect to our Network Partners and Clients, our fees are generally based on a fixed tiered structure for the duration of the relevant service agreement and are paid to us on a monthly basis. In addition, once a member HSA cash balance reaches a certain threshold, the member is able to invest his or her HSA Assets through our investment partner from which we earn recordkeeping and advisory fees, calculated as a percentage of the member's HSA investments. We recognize revenue on a monthly basis as services are rendered to our members and Clients. Custodial revenue. We earn custodial revenue primarily from HSA cash held by our Depository Partners or our insurance company partners and Client-held funds held by our Depository Partners. HSA cash is held by our -37- Table of Contents Depository Partners pursuant to contracts that (i) typically have terms ranging from three to five years, (ii) provide for a fixed or variable interest rate payable on the average daily cash balances held by the relevant Depository Partner, and (iii) have minimum and maximum required balances. HSA cash held by our insurance company partners is held in group annuity contracts or similar arrangements. Client-held funds held by our Depository Partners are held in interest-bearing demand deposit accounts that have a floating interest rate and no set term or duration. We earn custodial revenue on HSA cash and Client-held funds that is based on the interest rates offered to us by these Depository Partners and insurance company partners. Interchange revenue. We earn interchange revenue each time one of our members uses one of our physical payment cards or virtual platforms to make a purchase. This revenue is collected each time a member swipes our payment card to pay expenses. We recognize interchange revenue monthly based on reports received from third parties, namely, the card-issuing banks and card processors. Cost of revenue Service costs. Service costs are comprised of costs related to servicing accounts, managing Client and Network Partner relationships and processing reimbursement claims. Expenditures include personnel-related costs, depreciation, amortization, stock-based compensation, common expense allocations (such as office rent, supplies, and other overhead expenses), costs to reimburse members from outside fraud activity, new member and participant supplies, and other operating costs related to servicing our members. Custodial costs. Custodial costs are comprised of interest retained by our HSA members on HSA cash and fees we pay to banking consultants whom we use to help secure agreements with our Depository Partners. Interest retained by HSA members is calculated on a tiered basis. The interest rates retained by HSA members can change based on a formula or upon required notice. Interchange costs. Interchange costs are comprised of costs we incur in connection with processing payment transactions initiated by our members. Due to the substantiation requirement on FSA/HRA-linked payment card transactions, payment card costs are higher for FSA and HRA transactions than for HSA transactions. In addition to fixed per card fees, we are assessed additional transaction costs determined by the amount of the transaction. Gross profit and gross margin Our gross profit is our total revenue minus our total cost of revenue, and our gross margin is our gross profit expressed as a percentage of our total revenue. Our gross margin has been and will continue to be affected by a number of factors, including interest rates, the amount we charge our Network Partners, Clients, and members, the mix of our sources of revenue, how many services we deliver per account, and payment processing costs per account. Operating expenses Sales and marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel and related expenses for our sales and marketing staff, including sales commissions for our direct sales force, external agent/broker commission expenses, marketing expenses, depreciation, amortization, stock-based compensation, and common expense allocations. Technology and development. Technology and development expenses include personnel and related expenses for software development and delivery, licensed software, information technology, data management, product, and security. Technology and development expenses also include software engineering services, the costs of operating our technology infrastructure, depreciation, amortization of capitalized software development costs, stock-based compensation, and common expense allocations. General and administrative. General and administrative expenses include personnel and related expenses of, and professional fees incurred by our executive, finance, legal, internal audit, corporate development, compliance, and people departments. They also include depreciation, amortization, stock-based compensation, and common expense allocations. Amortization of acquired intangible assets. Amortization of acquired intangible assets results primarily from intangible assets acquired in connection with business combinations. The assets include acquired customer relationships, acquired developed technology, and acquired trade names and trademarks, which we amortize over the assets' estimated useful lives, estimated to be 7-15 years, 2-5 years, and 3 years, respectively. We also acquired intangible HSA portfolios from third-party custodians. We amortize these assets over the assets estimated useful life of 15 years. We evaluate our acquired intangible assets for impairment annually, or at a triggering event. -38- Table of Contents Merger integration. Merger integration expenses include personnel and related expenses, including severance, professional fees, legal expenses and settlements, and facilities and technology expenses directly related to integration activities to merge operations as a result of acquisitions. Interest expense Interest expense consists primarily of accrued interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs associated with our long-term debt. Interest on our revolving credit facility changes frequently due to variable interest rate terms, and as a result, our interest expense is expected to fluctuate based on changes in prevailing interest rates. Other income, net Other income, net, consists of interest income earned on corporate cash and other miscellaneous income and expense. Income tax provision We are subject to federal and state income taxes in the United States based on a January 31 fiscal year end. We use the asset and liability method to account for income taxes, under which current tax liabilities and assets are recognized for the estimated taxes payable or refundable on the tax returns for the current fiscal year. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, net operating loss carryforwards, and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted statutory tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be realized or settled. Valuation allowances are established when necessary to reduce net deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized. As of January 31, 2025, we have not recorded a valuation allowance on federal deferred tax assets, but we have recorded a valuation allowance on certain state deferred tax assets. We maintain an overall net federal and state deferred tax liability on our consolidated balance sheet. We evaluate our tax positions in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification ( ASC ) 740-10-25, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes , which prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. Results of operations For a discussion related to results of operations for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024 compared to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2023, refer to Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024, filed with the SEC on March 22, 2024. Revenue The following table sets forth our revenue for the periods indicated: Year ended January 31, (in thousands, except percentages) 2025 2024 $ change % change Service revenue $ 478,317 $ 455,690 $ 22,627 5 % Custodial revenue 545,414 386,594 158,820 41 % Interchange revenue 176,043 157,303 18,740 12 % Total revenue $ 1,199,774 $ 999,587 $ 200,187 20 % Service revenue. The $22.6 million, or 5%, increase in service revenue from the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024 to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 was primarily due to the increases in the number of HSAs and the amount of HSA investments, partially offset by lower average service fees per account. We expect service revenue to continue to increase, primarily due to an increase in Total Accounts, partially offset by lower average service fees per account. Custodial revenue. The $158.8 million, or 41%, increase in custodial revenue from the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024 to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 was primarily due to an increase in average annualized yield on HSA cash from 2.49% for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024 to 3.11% for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 (due to both higher market interest rates and an increase in participation in our Enhanced Rates offering from 32% of HSA cash as of January 31, 2024 to 49% as of January 31, 2025), the $2.1 billion, or 15%, -39- Table of Contents increase in the average daily balance of HSA cash, as described above, and an increase in interest rates on the portion of our Client-held funds held by our Depository Partners in interest-bearing demand deposit accounts that have a floating interest rate. Assuming the current interest rate environment continues, we expect our average annualized yield on HSA cash to further increase as our existing agreements with our Depository Partners are renewed or replaced with agreements with higher rates, resulting in higher custodial revenue. In addition, we expect an increase in the percentage of HSA cash held in our Enhanced Rates offering to continue to positively impact our average annualized yield and thus our custodial revenue. As Basic Rates contracts mature, we intend to transfer the associated HSA cash into Enhanced Rates contracts unless the HSA member affirmatively opts to remain in the Basic Rates offering. Interchange revenue. The $18.7 million, or 12%, increase in interchange revenue from the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024 to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 was primarily due to an increase in Total Accounts and an increase in spend per account using our payment cards. We expect interchange revenue to continue to increase, primarily due to an increase in Total Accounts. Total revenue. Total revenue increased by $200.2 million, or 20%, from the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024 to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, due to the increases in custodial, service, and interchange revenues, described above. Cost of revenue The following table sets forth our cost of revenue for the periods indicated: Year ended January 31, (in thousands, except percentages) 2025 2024 $ change % change Service costs $ 351,588 $ 317,357 $ 34,231 11 % Custodial costs 39,675 32,502 7,173 22 % Interchange costs 31,252 27,091 4,161 15 % Total cost of revenue $ 422,515 $ 376,950 $ 45,565 12 % Service costs. The $34.2 million, or 11%, increase in service costs from the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024 to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 was primarily due to a $19.1 million increase in costs incurred to reimburse members impacted by outside fraud activity and increases in costs to support the increase in Total Accounts and member interactions, partially offset by efficiencies resulting from our technology investments. For the fiscal year ending January 31, 2026, we expect service costs to decrease as a result of our technology investments in security and further operational efficiencies, partially offset by costs resulting from an increase in Total Accounts. Custodial costs. The $7.2 million, or 22%, increase in custodial costs from the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024 to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 was primarily due to the $2.1 billion, or 15% increase in the average daily balance of HSA cash, as described above, an increase in fees charged by our Depository Partners, and an increase in the average annualized rate of interest retained by HSA members on HSA cash, from 0.22% during the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024 to 0.23% during the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025. On an annual basis, we expect custodial costs to increase due to an increase in the year-over-year average daily balance of HSA cash, an increase in fees charged by our Depository Partners, and an increase in the average annualized rate of interest retained by HSA members on HSA cash. Interchange costs. The $4.2 million, or 15%, increase in interchange costs from the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024 to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 was primarily due to an increase in Total Accounts and certain costs associated with our transition to a single card processor during the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, partially offset by efficiencies resulting from the transition. Total cost of revenue. For the fiscal year ending January 31, 2026, we expect that our cost of revenue will decrease in dollar amount, primarily due to a decrease in service costs. We expect our cost of revenue to decrease as a percentage of our total revenue, primarily due to an increase in custodial revenue and a decrease in service costs, partially offset by costs resulting from an increase in Total Accounts. Cost of revenue as a percentage of total revenue decreased to 35% for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 compared to 38% for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024, due to total revenue increasing at a significantly higher rate (20%) than total cost of revenue (12%). Cost of revenue will continue to be affected by a number of different factors, including our ability to scale our service delivery, Network Partner implementation, and account management functions. -40- Table of Contents Operating expenses The following table sets forth our operating expenses for the periods indicated: Year ended January 31, (in thousands, except percentages) 2025 2024 $ change % change Sales and marketing $ 90,739 $ 79,273 $ 11,466 14 % Technology and development 239,513 218,811 20,702 9 % General and administrative 132,260 103,656 28,604 28 % Amortization of acquired intangible assets 111,878 92,763 19,115 21 % Merger integration 40,535 10,435 30,100 288 % Total operating expenses $ 614,925 $ 504,938 $ 109,987 22 % Sales and marketing. The $11.5 million, or 14%, increase in sales and marketing expenses from the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024 to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 was primarily due to an increase in personnel-related expenses. We expect our sales and marketing expenses to increase as we continue to focus on our cross-selling and member engagement programs. On an annual basis, we expect our sales and marketing expenses to remain relatively steady as a percentage of our total revenue. However, our sales and marketing expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our total revenue from period to period due to the seasonality of our total revenue and the timing and extent of our sales and marketing expenses. Technology and development. The $20.7 million, or 9%, increase in technology and development expenses from the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024 to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 was primarily due to increases in personnel-related expenses and software costs. We expect our technology and development expenses to increase as we continue to invest in the development and security of our proprietary technology, including our ongoing modernization project described earlier. On an annual basis, we expect our technology and development expenses to remain relatively steady as a percentage of our total revenue. However, our technology and development expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our total revenue from period to period due to the seasonality of our total revenue and the timing and extent of our technology and development expenses. General and administrative. The $28.6 million, or 28%, increase in general and administrative expenses from the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024 to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 was primarily due to accelerated stock-based compensation expense recognized with respect to certain performance restricted stock units granted during the current fiscal year, as described in Note 9 Stock-based compensation to our financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and increases in professional services expense. For the fiscal year ending January 31, 2026, we expect our general and administrative expenses to decrease, primarily due to a decrease in stock-based compensation expense, partially offset by additional demands on our legal, compliance, and finance functions as we continue to grow our business. We expect our general and administrative expenses to decrease as a percentage of our total revenue. However, our general and administrative expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our total revenue from period to period due to the seasonality of our total revenue and the timing and extent of our general and administrative expenses. Amortization of acquired intangible assets. The $19.1 million, or 21%, increase in amortization of acquired intangible assets from the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024 to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 was primarily due to the new intangible assets added through the BenefitWallet HSA portfolio acquisition. On an annual basis, we expect amortization of acquired intangible assets to decrease, primarily due to a smaller carrying amount of intangible assets that have not been fully amortized. Merger integration. The $30.1 million, or 288%, increase in merger integration expense from the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024 to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 was primarily due to the Lease Settlement, as described in Note 6 Commitments and contingencies to our financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Other merger integration expenses during the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 consisted of professional fees, including expenses incurred in conjunction with the migration of accounts, technology-related expenses directly related to the Further acquisition and certain ongoing merger integration expenses related to the acquisition of WageWorks, Inc. ("WageWorks"). -41- Table of Contents On an annual basis, we expect merger integration expense to decrease as we complete the remaining merger integration activities. Interest expense The $5.2 million, or 9%, increase in interest expense from the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024 to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 was primarily due to a higher average principal balance and a $0.4 million increase in losses on extinguishment of debt. The increase was partially offset by a lower average interest rate on borrowings with variable interest rate terms. On August 23, 2024, we entered into the Credit Agreement pursuant to which the Company established a new five-year senior secured revolving credit facility (the Revolving Credit Facility ) in an aggregate principal amount of up to $1.0 billion, a portion of which was used to repay all outstanding obligations under our prior credit agreement (the "Prior Credit Agreement"). As of January 31, 2025, borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility were $461.9 million and had a stated interest rate of 5.91%. As of January 31, 2024, borrowings under our Prior Credit Agreement were $286.9 million and had a stated interest rate of 6.69%. The increase in principal was due to $225.0 million of borrowings to pay a portion of the BenefitWallet HSA portfolio acquisition purchase price, partially offset by prepayments of $50.0 million during the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025. The interest rate on our Revolving Credit Facility is variable and, accordingly, we may incur additional expense if interest rates increase in future periods. Other income, net The $1.5 million increase in other income, net, was due to an increase in interest income on corporate cash, partially offset by a decrease in other miscellaneous income, net. Income tax provision We recorded an income tax provision of $19.3 million in each of the fiscal years ended January 31, 2025 and 2024. Relative to the year ended January 31, 2024, we had an increase in pre-tax book income, an increase in nondeductible executive compensation, and increased expense from deferred tax rate adjustments due to state apportionment changes, which were offset by an increase in tax deductible stock-based compensation compared to GAAP stock-based compensation expense and a decrease in expense from unrecognized tax benefits. Seasonality Seasonal concentration of our growth combined with our recurring revenue model create seasonal variation in our results of operations. Revenue results are seasonally impacted due to ancillary service fees, timing of HSA contributions, and timing of card spend. Cost of revenue is seasonally impacted as a significant number of new and existing Network Partners bring us new HSAs and CDBs beginning in January of each year concurrent with the start of many employers benefit plan years. Before we realize any revenue from these new accounts, we incur costs related to implementing and supporting our new Network Partners and new accounts. These costs of services relate to activating accounts and hiring additional staff, including seasonal help to support our member support center. These expenses begin to ramp up during our third fiscal quarter, with the majority of seasonal expenses incurred in our fourth fiscal quarter. Liquidity and capital resources For a discussion related to liquidity and capital resources for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024 compared to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2023, refer to Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024, filed with the SEC on March 22, 2024. Cash and cash equivalents overview Our principal sources of liquidity are our current cash and cash equivalents balances, collections from our custodial, service, and interchange revenue activities, and availability under our Revolving Credit Facility. We rely on cash provided by operating activities to meet our short-term liquidity requirements, which primarily relate to the payment of corporate payroll and other operating costs, interest payments on our long-term debt, and capital expenditures. As of January 31, 2025 and January 31, 2024, cash and cash equivalents were $295.9 million and $404.0 million, respectively. -42- Table of Contents Capital resources We maintain a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 on file with the SEC. A shelf registration statement, which includes a base prospectus, allows us at any time to offer any combination of securities described in the prospectus in one or more offerings. Unless otherwise specified in a prospectus supplement accompanying the base prospectus, we would use the net proceeds from the sale of any securities offered pursuant to the shelf registration statement for general corporate purposes, including, but not limited to, working capital, sales and marketing activities, general and administrative matters, capital expenditures, and repayment of indebtedness, and if opportunities arise, for the acquisition of, or investment in, assets, technologies, solutions or businesses that complement our business. Pending such uses, we may invest the net proceeds in interest-bearing securities. In addition, we may conduct concurrent or other financings at any time. On August 23, 2024, we entered into the Credit Agreement, which includes a five-year senior secured Revolving Credit Facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $1.0 billion, a portion of which was used to refinance our Prior Credit Agreement. The Revolving Credit Facility may be used in the future for working capital and general corporate purposes, including the financing of acquisitions and other investments. For a description of the terms of the Credit Agreement, refer to Note 7 Indebtedness to our financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As of January 31, 2025, the outstanding balance under the Revolving Credit Facility was $461.9 million. We were in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Agreement as of January 31, 2025, and for the period then ended. Use of cash During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, we used $452.2 million of cash, which includes $225.0 million borrowed under our prior revolving credit facility, to pay for the BenefitWallet HSA portfolio acquisition. In August 2024, in connection with our entry into the Credit Agreement, we repaid all outstanding obligations in the amount of $511.9 million under the Prior Credit Agreement and terminated all commitments thereunder. During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, we prepaid $50.0 million under the Credit Agreement. During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, we used $121.5 million of cash for common stock repurchases. See Note 10 Stockholders' equity to our financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information related to our stock repurchase program. Capital expenditures for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2025 and 2024 were $53.2 million and $42.8 million, respectively. We expect to continue our current level of capital expenditures during the fiscal year ending January 31, 2026 as we continue to invest in improving the architecture and functionality of our proprietary systems. Capital expenditures to improve the architecture of our proprietary systems include computer hardware, personnel and related costs for software engineering, and outsourced software engineering services. We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, and Revolving Credit Facility will be sufficient to meet our operating and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. To the extent these current and anticipated future sources of liquidity are insufficient to fund our future business activities and requirements, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financing. In the event that additional financing is required, we may not be able to raise it on favorable terms, if at all. The following table shows our cash flows from operating activities, investing activities, and financing activities for the stated periods: Year ended January 31, (in thousands) 2025 2024 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 339,856 $ 242,826 Net cash used in investing activities (505,454) (46,074) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 57,567 (47,039) Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (108,031) 149,713 Beginning cash and cash equivalents 403,979 254,266 Ending cash and cash equivalents $ 295,948 $ 403,979 Cash flows from operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $97.0 million, primarily due to increased cash receipts with respect to our custodial, service, and interchange revenues and a decrease in income tax payments, partially offset by an increase in cash payments with respect to operating expenses, cost of revenue, and interest on our long-term debt. -43- Table of Contents Cash flows from investing activities. Net cash used in investing activities increased by $459.4 million, primarily due to a $449.0 million increase in cash used to acquire HSA portfolios and a $10.0 million increase in cash used for purchases of software and capitalized software development costs. Cash flows from financing activities. Net cash provided by financing activities was $57.6 million during the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, compared to $47.0 million of net cash used in financing activities during the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024. The change was due to a $736.9 million increase in proceeds from long-term debt and a $3.0 million increase in proceeds from the exercise of common stock options, partially offset by a $511.2 million increase in cash used for principal payments and debt issuance costs associated with our long-term debt, a $121.5 million increase in cash used for repurchases of common stock, and a $2.5 million increase in net cash used in the settlement of client-held funds obligations. Contractual obligations See Note 6 Commitments and contingencies to our financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information about our contractual obligations. Off-balance sheet arrangements As of January 31, 2025, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources. Critical accounting policies and significant management estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable in the circumstances. In many instances, we could have reasonably used different accounting estimates, and in other instances, changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require management judgment in its application, while in other cases, management judgment is required in selecting among available alternative accounting standards that allow different accounting treatment for similar transactions. We believe that there are several accounting policies that are critical to understanding our business and prospects for future performance, as these policies affect the reported amounts of revenue and other significant areas that involve management judgment and estimates. These significant policies and our procedures related to these policies are described in detail below. Capitalized software development costs We account for the costs of computer software developed or obtained for internal use in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, 350-40, Internal-Use Software . Costs incurred during operation and post-implementation stages are charged to expense. Costs incurred that are directly attributable to developing or obtaining software for internal use incurred in the application development stage are capitalized. Management judgment is required in determining the point when various projects enter the stages at which costs may be capitalized, in assessing the ongoing value of the capitalized costs and in determining the estimated useful lives over which the costs are amortized. Valuation of goodwill and other long-lived assets We review goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances would more likely than not reduce the fair value of our single reporting unit below its carrying value. The Company annual goodwill impairment test resulted in no impairment charges in any of the periods presented in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Long-lived assets, including property and equipment and intangible assets are reviewed for possible impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. The evaluation is performed at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. Recoverability of these assets is measured by a comparison of the carrying -44- Table of Contents amounts to the future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected to generate from the use and eventual disposition. If such review indicates that the carrying amount of property and equipment and intangible assets is not recoverable, the carrying amount of such assets is reduced to fair value. We have not recorded any significant impairment charges during the years presented. Recent accounting pronouncements See Note 1 Summary of business and significant accounting policies within the financial statements included in this Form 10-K for further discussion. 
