CIK: 15615
Company Name: MASTEC INC
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2024-03-01
Accession Number: 0000015615-24-000021


ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our business, financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. The discussion below contains forward-looking statements that are based upon our current expectations and is subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to inaccurate assumptions and known or unknown risks and uncertainties, including those identified in Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors. General Economic, Market and Regulatory Conditions We have experienced, and may continue to experience, direct and indirect negative effects on our business and operations from economic, market and regulatory conditions, including the current level of interest rates; inflationary effects on the costs of labor, materials and fuel; supply chain disruptions; uncertainty related to the implementation and pace of spending under governmental programs and initiatives related to infrastructure and other industrial investment, delays and uncertainty related to project permitting and/or other regulatory matters or uncertainty; climate, environmental and sustainability-related matters; changes in technology, tax and other incentives; potential market volatility that could negatively affect demand for future projects, and/or delay existing project timing or cause increased project costs; and public health matters. Additionally, the effects of ongoing and recent geopolitical events, such as the political unrest and military conflicts in the Middle East and Ukraine, could potentially increase volatility and uncertainty in the energy and capital markets, which could delay projects and/or negatively affect demand for future projects. We expect 2024 to continue to be a dynamic macroeconomic environment, with elevated market interest rates and continuing, but moderating levels of cost inflation and potential market volatility, any or all of which could adversely affect our costs and customer demand. These conditions could also affect the cost of capital of both us and our customers, as well as our customers plans for capital investments and ongoing maintenance expenditures, which could negatively affect demand for our services. We could also experience negative effects from possible longer-term changes in consumer and customer behavior due to regulatory, climate-related or other factors. The extent to which general economic, market and regulatory conditions could affect our business, operations and financial results is uncertain as it will depend upon numerous evolving factors that we may not be able to accurately predict, and, therefore, any future impacts on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations cannot be quantified or predicted with specificity. We believe that our financial position, cash flows and operational strengths will enable us to manage the current uncertainties resulting from general economic, market and regulatory conditions. We carefully manage our liquidity and monitor any potential effects from changing economic, market and regulatory conditions on our financial results, cash flows and/or working capital and will take appropriate actions in efforts to mitigate any impacts. Business See Item 1. Business for discussion pertaining to our business and reportable segments. In 2021, we initiated a significant transformation of our end-market business operations to focus on the nation transition to low-carbon energy sources and position the Company for expected future opportunities associated with this transition. This transformation included significant business combination activity, including expansion of our scale and capacity in renewable energy, power delivery, heavy civil and telecommunications services, which activity resulted in significant acquisition and integration costs, both in our existing and recently acquired operations. As of December 31, 2023, acquisition and integration efforts related to this acquisition activity were substantially complete, and any such costs in the future are not expected to be material. Recent acquisitions . During 2023, we completed four acquisitions, including, within our Communications segment, certain of the assets of a telecommunications company specializing in wireless services; and a telecommunications construction company specializing in broadband and fiber-to-the-home initiatives in the New England area. Additionally, we acquired certain of the equity interests of two equipment companies, both of which are included within our Oil and Gas segment. During 2022, we completed five acquisitions including: (i) within our Clean Energy and Infrastructure segment: IEA, a leading utility-scale infrastructure solutions provider in North America, with expertise in renewable energy and heavy civil projects, as well as rail and environmental remediation services; and a company specializing in the production of concrete and aggregate products; (ii) within our Oil and Gas segment: an infrastructure construction company focusing on water, sewer and utility projects and with expertise in excavation and site work; (iii) within our Communications segment: a telecommunications company specializing in wireline services; and (iv) within our Power Delivery segment: a company specializing in the construction of overhead high voltage transmission lines. During 2021, we completed fourteen acquisitions including: (i) HMG, an industry-leading utility services firm providing critical infrastructure design, construction and maintenance services to the power and renewables, telecommunications, gas distribution and pipeline services end-markets. HMG results are reported within our Power Delivery, Communications and Oil and Gas segments, as appropriate, and HMG corporate functions are reported within our corporate results. Additionally, the Company 2021 acquisitions included: (ii) within our Power Delivery segment: an electric utility distribution contractor; a company specializing in vegetation management services for the electric and telecommunications industries; and INTREN, a premier specialty utility contractor primarily providing electrical distribution network services under various multi-year master service agreements to some of the nation largest utilities, municipalities and cooperatives; (iii) within our Clean Energy and Infrastructure segment: a heavy civil infrastructure construction company focusing on transportation projects; and a heavy industrial general contractor with concrete, piping and electrical capabilities; (iv) within our Communications segment: a telecommunications company specializing in cabling, plant and other network services; a telecommunications and utility technical services company focusing on outside plant telecommunications 32 engineering; a telecommunications and cable services provider; a utilities infrastructure company, providing power line construction and repair services; and the business operations of an entity specializing in install-to-the-home services; and (v) within our Oil and Gas segment: an infrastructure construction company focusing on water, sewer and utility projects, along with expertise in site work; a company specializing in environmental services for energy infrastructure and heavy civil projects; and a pipeline contractor focusing on integrity and maintenance work related to gas distribution infrastructure. For additional information, see Note 3 - Acquisitions, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, Net in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated by reference. Economic, Industry and Market Factors We closely monitor the effects of changes in economic, industry and market conditions on our customers, including the potential effects of the factors discussed above in General Economic, Market and Regulatory Conditions, which can affect demand for our customers products and services and can increase or decrease our customers planned capital and maintenance budgets in certain end-markets. Any of these factors and effects, as well as mergers and acquisitions or other business transactions among the customers we serve, could affect demand for our services, or the cost to provide such services and our profitability. Changes in demand in our customers businesses and fluctuations in market prices for energy sources, including oil and gas products, can affect demand for our services. In particular, such changes can affect the level of activity in energy generation projects, including from renewable energy sources, as well as pipeline construction and carbon capture projects. The availability of transportation and transmission capacity can also affect demand for our services, including energy generation, electric grid and pipeline construction projects. These factors, as well as the highly competitive nature of our industry, can result in changes in levels of activity, project mix, and/or the profitability of the services we provide. In the face of increased pricing pressure or other market developments, we strive to maintain our profit margins through productivity improvements, cost reduction programs and/or business streamlining efforts. Market factors, including the continuing elevated rates of interest and inflation and the related effects on labor, materials and fuel costs, have had, and could continue to have, a negative effect on our profitability, to the extent that we are not able to pass these costs through to our customers. While we actively monitor economic, industry and market factors that could affect our business, we cannot predict the effect that changes in such factors could have on our future results of operations, liquidity and cash flows, and we may be unable to fully mitigate, or benefit from, such changes. Effect of Seasonality and Cyclical Nature of Business Our revenue and results of operations can be subject to seasonal and other variations. These variations are influenced by customer spending patterns, bidding seasons, project schedules, weather and/or climate-related effects, holidays, regulatory matters and/or timing, in particular, for large non-recurring projects, and the effects of market uncertainty or disruptions, as described within Economic, Industry and Market Factors, above. Typically, our revenue is lowest at the beginning of the year and during the winter months because cold, snowy or wet conditions can delay projects. Revenue is generally higher during the summer and fall months due to increased demand for our services when favorable weather conditions exist in many of the regions in which we operate, but continued cold and wet weather can often affect second quarter project activity and/or productivity. In the fourth quarter, many projects tend to be completed by customers seeking to spend their capital budgets before the end of the year, which can have a positive effect on our revenue. Customers, however, could also curtail certain of their project activities toward the end of the year as they await capital budget allocations for the next year. The holiday season and inclement weather can cause delays, which can reduce revenue and increase costs on affected projects during the related period. Any quarter may be positively or negatively affected by adverse or unusual weather patterns and/or climate-related effects, including warm winter weather, excessive rainfall, flooding or natural catastrophes such as wildfires, hurricanes, excessive winds or other severe weather, making it difficult to predict quarterly revenue and margin variations. Additionally, our industry can be highly cyclical. Fluctuations in end-user demand within the industries we serve, or in the supply of services within those industries, can affect demand for our services. As a result, our business may be adversely affected by industry declines, delays in new projects and/or changes in consumer or customer demand. Variations in project schedules or unanticipated changes in project schedules, in particular, in connection with large construction and installation projects, can create fluctuations in revenue, which may adversely affect us in a given quarter, even if not for the full year. In addition, revenue from master service and other service agreements, while generally predictable, can be subject to volatility, including from changes in customer demand, customer revenue mix, or project timing. The financial condition of our customers and their access to capital; variations in project margins; regional, national and global economic, political and market conditions; regulatory or environmental influences, including climate-related matters; and acquisitions, dispositions or strategic arrangements can also materially affect quarterly results in a given period. Accordingly, our operating results in any particular period may not be indicative of the results that can be expected for any other period. Understanding Our Results of Operations Revenue. We primarily provide engineering, building, installation, maintenance and upgrade services to our customers. We derive revenue from projects performed under master and other service agreements as well as from contracts for specific projects requiring the construction and installation of an entire infrastructure system or specified units within an infrastructure system. See Item 1. Business for discussion of our business and revenue-generating activities and Comparison of Fiscal Year Results below for revenue results by reportable segment. Costs of Revenue, Excluding Depreciation and Amortization. Costs of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization, consists principally of employee compensation, including salaries, employee benefits and incentive compensation; certain other employee expenses, including travel and training; subcontracted services; equipment and facility rentals; fuel and other equipment expenses; repairs and maintenance; materials and supplies; insurance expenses; certain legal and settlement matters; and certain other operating expenses. Project profit is calculated by subtracting a project costs of revenue, including project-related depreciation, from project revenue. Project profit and corresponding project margins will generally be reduced if actual costs to complete a project exceed our project cost estimates and we are unable to pass the increased costs through to 33 our customers. Estimated losses on contracts, or the excess of the total estimated costs to complete a contract over the contract total estimated contract transaction price, are recognized in the period in which such losses are determined. Factors impacting our costs of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization, and project profit, include: Project Mix. The mix of revenue derived from the projects we perform impacts overall project margins, as margin opportunities and/or risks can vary by project type and by industry. For example, installation work that is performed on a fixed price basis has a higher level of margin opportunity or risk than maintenance or upgrade work, which is often performed under pre-established fixed price per unit or time and materials pricing arrangements. As a result, changes in project mix between installation work performed on a fixed price basis, and maintenance or upgrade services that are performed under pre-established fixed price per unit or time and materials pricing arrangements, can affect our project margins in a given period. Our project mix by industry and/or segment can also affect our overall margins, as project margins can vary by industry and segment and over time. Seasonality, Weather and Geographic Mix. Seasonal patterns, which can be affected by weather conditions, can have a significant effect on project margins. Adverse or favorable weather conditions can affect project margins in a given period. For example, extended periods of rain or snowfall can negatively affect revenue and project margins due to reduced productivity from projects being delayed or temporarily halted. Conversely, when weather remains dry and temperatures are accommodating, more work can be done, sometimes with less cost, which can favorably affect project margins. The level of demand for restoration and storm work, which, by its nature, is unpredictable, can also favorably or negatively affect our revenue composition and project margins in a given period. In addition, the mix of business conducted in different geographic areas can affect project margins due to the particular characteristics of the physical locations where work is being performed, such as mountainous or rocky terrain versus open terrain. Site conditions, including unforeseen underground conditions, can also affect project margins. Price and Performance Risk . Overall project margins may fluctuate due to project pricing and job conditions, changes in the cost of labor and materials, crew availability, job productivity and work volume. Job productivity can be affected by quality of the work crew and equipment, the quality of engineering specifications and designs, availability of skilled labor, environmental or regulatory factors, customer decisions or delays and crew productivity. Job productivity can also be influenced by weather conditions, job conditions and job terrain, such as whether project work is in a right of way that is open or one that has physical obstructions or legal encumbrances. Subcontracted Resources . Our use of subcontracted resources in a given period is dependent upon activity levels and the amount and location of existing in-house resources and capacity. Project margins on subcontracted work can vary from those on self-perform work. As a result, changes in the availability and mix of subcontracted resources versus self-perform work can affect our overall project margins. Material versus Labor Costs. In most cases, our customers are responsible for supplying their own materials on projects; however, under certain contracts, we may agree to provide all or part of the required materials. Project margins are typically lower on projects where we furnish a significant amount of materials due to the fact that margins on materials are generally lower than margins on labor costs. Therefore, changes in the mix of projects with significant materials requirements could affect our overall project margins. General and Administrative Expense. General and administrative expenses consist principally of employee compensation and benefits, travel expenses and related costs for our finance, treasury, benefits, insurance and risk management, legal, facilities, information technology and executive functions. General and administrative expenses also include non-cash stock-based compensation expense, outside professional and accounting fees, certain legal and settlement matters, facilities costs, expenses associated with information technology used in administration of the business, gains or losses from the disposal of property and equipment, acquisition costs, including certain costs related to acquisition integration, business streamlining, and, from time to time, certain restructuring charges. Interest Expense, Net. Interest expense, net, consists of contractual interest expense on outstanding debt obligations, amortization of deferred financing costs and other interest expense, including interest expense related to financing arrangements and mandatorily redeemable non-controlling interests. Interest expense is offset, in part, by interest earned on cash and other investments. Other Income or Expense. Other income or expense consists primarily of gains or losses from changes to estimated Earn-out accruals, certain legal and other settlements, certain acquisition-related adjustments, gains or losses from, or changes in estimated recoveries from, certain assets, including financial instruments, and certain liabilities, and certain acquisition and integration costs. Financial Performance Metrics Our senior management team regularly reviews certain key financial performance metrics within our business, including: revenue and profitability on an overall basis, by reportable segment and for selected projects; revenue by customer and by contract type; costs of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization; general and administrative expenses; depreciation; amortization; interest expense, net; other income or expense; and provision for income taxes; earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( EBITDA ) and adjusted EBITDA, as defined in our non-U.S. GAAP financial measures discussion following the Comparison of Fiscal Year Results section below; earnings per share and adjusted earnings per share, as defined in our non-U.S. GAAP financial measures discussion; days sales outstanding, net of contract liabilities, and days payable outstanding; capital expenditures, net of asset disposals, and investment activities; interest and debt service coverage ratios; and liquidity and cash flows. 34 Management analysis includes detailed discussions and review of its key performance indicators; acquisition integration and productivity improvement efforts; proposed investments in property and equipment and new business opportunities; strategic arrangement opportunities; and working capital and other capital management efforts, among others. Measuring its key performance indicators and other business metrics is an important tool used by management to make informed and timely operational decisions, which we believe can help us improve our performance. Critical Accounting Estimates This discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, including the potential future effects of macroeconomic trends and events, such as inflation and interest rate levels; uncertainty from potential market volatility; other market, industry and regulatory factors, including uncertainty related to the implementation and pace of governmental programs and initiatives and project permitting issues, and other regulatory matters or uncertainty; supply chain disruptions; climate-related matters; global events, such as military conflicts; and public health matters. These estimates form the basis for making judgments about our operating results and the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Given that management estimates, by their nature, involve judgments regarding future uncertainties, actual results could differ materially from these estimates if conditions change or if certain key assumptions used in making these estimates ultimately prove to be inaccurate. Our accounting policies and critical accounting estimates are reviewed periodically by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. We believe that our accounting estimates pertaining to: the recognition of revenue and project profit or loss, which we define as project revenue, less project costs of revenue, including project-related depreciation, in particular, on construction contracts accounted for under the cost-to-cost method, for which the recorded amounts require estimates of costs to complete and the amount and probability of variable consideration included in the contract transaction price; fair value estimates, including those related to acquisitions, valuations of goodwill, intangible assets, acquisition-related contingent consideration and equity investments; self-insurance liabilities; income taxes; and litigation and other contingencies, are the most critical in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements as they are important to the portrayal of our financial condition and require significant or complex judgment and estimates on the part of management. Actual results could, however, vary materially from these accounting estimates. Refer to Note 1 - Business, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated by reference, for a more detailed discussion of our significant accounting policies and critical accounting estimates. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue from contracts with customers when, or as, control of promised services and goods is transferred to customers. The amount of revenue recognized reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled in exchange for the services and goods transferred. We primarily recognize revenue over time utilizing the cost-to-cost measure of progress, which best depicts the continuous transfer of control of goods or services to the customer, and correspondingly, when performance obligations are satisfied for the related contracts. Contracts. We derive revenue primarily from construction projects performed under: (i) master service and other service agreements, which generally provide a menu of available services in a specific geographic territory that are utilized on an as-needed basis, and are typically priced using either a time and materials or a fixed price per unit basis; and (ii) contracts for specific projects requiring the construction and installation of an entire infrastructure system or specified units within an infrastructure system, which may be subject to one or multiple pricing options, including fixed price, unit price, time and materials, or cost plus a markup. Revenue derived from projects performed under master service and other service agreements totaled 40% of consolidated revenue for the year ended December 31, 2023. The total contract transaction price and cost estimation processes used for recognizing revenue over time under the cost-to-cost method is primarily based on the professional knowledge and experience of our project managers, operational and financial professionals, and other professional expertise, as warranted. Management reviews estimates of total contract transaction price and total project costs on an ongoing basis. Changes in job performance, job conditions and management assessment of the estimated amount and probability of variable consideration are factors that influence estimates of the total contract transaction price, total costs to complete those contracts and our profit recognition. Changes in these factors could result in revisions to the amount of revenue recognized in the period in which the revisions are determined, which revisions could materially affect our consolidated results of operations for that period. Provisions for losses on uncompleted contracts are recorded in the period in which such losses are expected based on management estimates. For the year ended December 31, 2023, project profit was affected by less than 5% as a result of changes in contract estimates included in projects that were in process as of December 31, 2022. Changes in recognized revenue, net, as a result of changes in total contract transaction price estimates, including from variable consideration, and/or changes in cost estimates, related to performance obligations satisfied or partially satisfied in prior periods, for the year ended December 31, 2023, positively affected revenue by approximately 0.2%. Performance Obligations. A performance obligation is a contractual promise to transfer a distinct good or service to a customer. The transaction price of a contract is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when or as the performance obligation is satisfied. Our contracts often require significant services to integrate complex activities and equipment into a single deliverable, and are therefore generally accounted for as a single performance obligation, even when delivering multiple distinct services. Contract amendments and change orders, which are generally not distinct from the existing contract, are typically accounted for as a modification of the existing contract and performance obligation. The majority of our performance obligations are completed within one year. When more than one contract is entered into with a customer on or close to the same date, management evaluates whether those contracts should be combined and accounted for as a single contract, as well as whether those contracts should be accounted for as one, or more than one, performance obligation. This evaluation requires significant judgment and is based on the facts and circumstances of the specific contracts. 35 Variable Consideration. Transaction prices for our contracts may include variable consideration, which comprises items such as change orders, claims and incentives. Management estimates variable consideration for a performance obligation utilizing estimation methods that we believe best predict the amount of consideration to which we will be entitled. Variable consideration is included in the estimated transaction price if it is probable that when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved, there will not be a significant reversal of the cumulative amount of revenue that has been recognized. Management estimates of variable consideration and the determination of whether to include estimated amounts in transaction prices are based largely on specific discussions, correspondence or preliminary negotiations and past practices with the customer, engineering studies and legal advice and all other relevant information that is reasonably available at the time of the estimate. The effect of variable consideration on the transaction price of a performance obligation is recognized as an adjustment to revenue, typically on a cumulative catch-up basis, as such variable consideration, which typically pertains to changed conditions and scope, is generally for services encompassed under the existing contract. To the extent unapproved change orders, claims and other variable consideration reflected in transaction prices are not resolved in our favor, or to the extent incentives reflected in transaction prices are not earned, there could be reductions in, or reversals of, previously recognized revenue. As of December 31, 2023, we included in our contract transaction prices approximately $194 million of change orders and/or claims for certain contracts that were in the process of being resolved in the ordinary course of our business, including through negotiation, arbitration and other proceedings. These transaction price adjustments, when earned, are included within contract assets or accounts receivable, net of allowance, as appropriate. As of December 31, 2023, these change orders and/or claims primarily related to certain projects in our Clean Energy and Infrastructure and Power Delivery segments. We actively engage with our customers to complete the final approval process and generally expect these processes to be completed within one year. Amounts ultimately realized upon final agreement by customers could be higher or lower than such estimated amounts. Business Combinations The determination of the fair value of net assets acquired in a business combination requires estimates and judgments of future cash flow expectations for the acquired business and the related identifiable tangible and intangible assets. Fair values of net assets acquired are calculated using expected cash flows and industry-standard valuation techniques. Consideration paid generally consists of cash and, from time to time, shares of our common stock, and potential future payments that are contingent upon the acquired business achieving certain levels of earnings in the future, also referred to as acquisition-related contingent consideration or earn-outs. We estimate the fair values of our earn-out liabilities using income approaches such as discounted cash flows or option pricing models, both of which incorporate significant inputs not observable in the market (Level 3 inputs), including management estimates and entity-specific assumptions, which inputs are evaluated on an ongoing basis. Key assumptions in estimating the fair values of our earn-out liabilities include the discount rate, which was 13.0% as of December 31, 2023, and probability-weighted projections of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( EBITDA ). Significant changes in any of these assumptions could result in significantly higher or lower estimated earn-out liabilities. Due to the time required to gather and analyze the necessary data for each acquisition, U.S. GAAP provides a measurement period of up to one year from the date of acquisition in which to finalize these fair value determinations. During the measurement period, preliminary fair value estimates may be revised if new information is obtained about the facts and circumstances existing as of the date of acquisition, or based on the final net assets and working capital of the acquired business, as prescribed in the applicable purchase agreement. Such adjustments may result in the recognition of, or an adjustment to the fair values of, acquisition-related assets and liabilities and/or consideration paid, and are referred to as measurement period adjustments. Measurement period adjustments are recorded to goodwill. Other revisions to fair value estimates, including those relating to facts and circumstances that occur subsequent to the date of acquisition, are reflected as income or expense, as appropriate. See Note 3 - Acquisitions, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, Net in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated by reference, for information pertaining to acquisition-related fair value adjustments. Significant changes in the assumptions or estimates for a particular acquisition or in the underlying acquisition-related valuations, including the expected profitability or cash flows of an acquired business or assumptions related to the existence or amount of the acquired assets or assumed liabilities, could result in materially different estimates of the fair value of net assets acquired for the related acquisition, which could positively or negatively affect our financial results in future periods. Goodwill and Intangible Assets We have goodwill and intangible assets that have been recorded in connection with our acquisitions of businesses. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized, but instead are tested for impairment at least annually. Finite-lived intangible assets are amortized over their useful lives, which are generally based on contractual or legal rights, in a manner consistent with the pattern in which the related benefits are expected to be consumed. We review long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. We perform our annual impairment tests of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets during the fourth quarter of each year, and on a quarterly basis, we monitor these assets for potential indicators of impairment. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at the reporting unit level. A reporting unit is an operating segment, or one level below the operating segment, which is referred to as a component. We reassessed the reporting unit structure of our Clean Energy and Infrastructure operating segment in the fourth quarter of 2023. As a result of this assessment, the reporting units within our Clean Energy and Infrastructure operating segment were restructured to more closely align with the segment end markets, including from the effects of our recent transformative acquisition efforts, and to better correspond with the management reporting structure of the segment. Under the new reporting unit structure, each of the reporting units within our Clean Energy and Infrastructure operating segment is a component, which is consistent with its previous reporting unit structure. Based on management review of the Company components and their related operations, we combine three of the components of the Power Delivery operating segment into one reporting unit. All of our other reporting units are each composed of one component. 36 Following is a summary of goodwill and intangible assets, net, by segment as of December 31, 2023, which includes indefinite-lived intangible assets within the Clean Energy and Infrastructure segment totaling approximately $34.5 million: Communications Clean Energy and Infrastructure Power Delivery Oil and Gas Total Goodwill (in millions) $ 646.9 $ 742.0 $ 270.8 $ 466.7 $ 2,126.4 Percentage of total 30.4 % 34.9 % 12.7 % 21.9 % 100.0 % Other intangible assets, net (in millions) $ 50.2 $ 335.9 $ 330.0 $ 68.2 $ 784.3 Percentage of total 6.4 % 42.8 % 42.1 % 8.7 % 100.0 % For the year ended December 31, 2023, we performed a qualitative assessment for our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets by examining relevant events and circumstances that could have an effect on their fair values, such as: macroeconomic conditions, including: levels of inflation, market interest rates and/or supply chain disruptions; industry and/or market conditions, including the potential effects of regulatory and other uncertainty, including uncertainty related to the implementation and pace of spending under governmental infrastructure programs and initiatives; project permitting uncertainty; financial, competitive and other conditions, including declines in the operating performance of our reporting units; entity-specific events; the potential effects of longer-term changes in consumer behavior due to regulatory, climate-related or other factors, and other relevant factors or events that could affect earnings and cash flows. Based on the results of the qualitative assessments for the year ended December 31, 2023, we performed quantitative testing for (i) three reporting units within our Clean Energy and Infrastructure operating segment; (ii) one reporting unit within our Power Delivery operating segment ; and (iii) one reporting unit within our Oil and Gas operating segment. Factors considered by management in determining the reporting units for which quantitative assessments were performed included the effects of current or expected changes in market conditions on the future business outlook, including, as described above, the potential future effects of macroeconomic trends and events, industry, market and regulatory factors, climate-related or other factors, rates of success on new project awards and levels of operating activity. For the reporting units for which quantitative testing was performed, we estimated their fair values using a combination of market and income approaches using Level 3 inputs. Under the market approach, fair values were estimated using published market multiples for comparable companies and applying them to revenue and EBITDA. Under the income approach, a discounted cash flow methodology was used, considering: (i) management estimates, such as projections of revenue, operating costs and cash flows, taking into consideration historical and anticipated financial results; (ii) general economic, market and regulatory conditions; and (iii) the impact of planned business and operational strategies. We believe the assumptions used in our quantitative goodwill impairment tests are reflective of the risks inherent in the business models of the applicable reporting units and within the units industry. Estimated discount rates were determined using the weighted average cost of capital for each reporting unit at the time of the analysis, taking into consideration the risks inherent within each reporting unit individually. Significant assumptions used in testing the reporting units included terminal values based on a terminal growth rate of 3.0%, six to nine years of discounted cash flows prior to the terminal value, and discount rates ranging from 10.5% to 14.0%. Based on the results of the quantitative assessments, the estimated fair values of all of the tested reporting units were determined to substantially exceed their carrying values. A 100 basis point increase in the discount rate would not have resulted in any of the tested reporting units carrying values exceeding their fair values. In addition, quantitative testing was performed for the reporting units as determined under the previous structure of the Clean Energy and Infrastructure operating segment , as discussed above. Based on the results of this assessment, the estimated fair values of all reporting units under the previous reporting unit structure exceeded their carrying values. As of December 31, 2023, we believe that the recorded balances of goodwill and intangible assets are recoverable; however, significant changes in the assumptions or estimates used in our analyses, such as a reduction in profitability and/or cash flows, changes in market, regulatory or other conditions, including decreases in project activity levels and/or the effects of elevated levels of inflation, interest rates or other regulatory or market disruptions, including from geopolitical events and/or changes in asset characteristics, could result in non-cash goodwill and/or intangible asset impairment charges in future periods. See Note 1 - Business, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies and Note 3 - Acquisitions, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, Net in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements, which are incorporated by reference, for additional discussion. Equity Investments Our investment and strategic arrangements include equity interests in various business entities and participation in contractual joint ventures, some of which may involve the extension of loans or other types of financing arrangements. Equity investments, other than those accounted for as equity method investments or those that are proportionately consolidated, are measured at fair value if their fair values are readily determinable. Equity investments that do not have readily determinable fair values are measured at cost, adjusted for changes from observable market transactions, if any, less impairment, which is referred to as the adjusted cost basis. We evaluate such investments for impairment by considering a variety of factors, including the earnings performance of the related investments, as well as the economic environment and market conditions in which the investees operate. Significant changes in any of these factors could result in impairment charges in future periods. 37 Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes uses an effective tax rate based on annual pre-tax income, statutory tax rates, permanent tax differences and tax planning opportunities in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Significant factors that can affect our annual effective tax rate include management assessment of certain tax matters, the location and amount of taxable earnings, changes in certain non-deductible expenses and expected credits. Although we believe our provision for income taxes is accurate and the related assumptions are reasonable, the final outcome of tax matters could be materially different from what we currently anticipate, which could result in significant costs or benefits to us. See Note 12 - Income Taxes in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated by reference, for additional discussion. In the ordinary course of business, there is inherent uncertainty in quantifying income tax positions. We assess our income tax positions and record tax benefits for all years subject to examination based on our evaluation of the facts, circumstances and information available at the reporting date. For those tax positions where it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, we have recognized the largest amount of tax benefit with a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. For those income tax positions where it is not more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, no tax benefit has been recognized in our financial statements. We file income tax returns in numerous tax jurisdictions, including U.S. federal, most U.S. states and certain foreign jurisdictions. Although we believe our calculations for tax returns are accurate and the positions taken thereon are reasonable, the final outcome of income tax examinations could be materially different from our expectations and the estimates that are reflected in our consolidated financial statements, which could materially affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity in the related period. Self-Insurance We are self-insured up to the amount of our deductible for our insurance policies. We also manage certain of our insurance liabilities indirectly through our wholly-owned captive insurance company, which reimburses claims up to the applicable insurance limits. Liabilities under our insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimate of the ultimate liability for claims, with assistance from third-party actuaries. The determination of such claims and expenses and the appropriateness of the related liability is reviewed and updated quarterly. These insurance liabilities are, however, difficult to assess and estimate due to many factors, the effects of which are often unknown or difficult to estimate, including the severity of an injury or an incident, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties and the number of incidents not reported. Accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends. Although we believe such accruals are adequate, a change in experience or actuarial or management assumptions could materially affect our results of operations in a particular period. Litigation and Contingencies Accruals for litigation and contingencies are based on our assessment, including advice of legal counsel, of the expected outcome of litigation or other dispute resolution proceedings and/or the expected resolution of contingencies. Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability of loss and the determination as to whether the amount is reasonably estimable. Accruals are based on information available at the time of the assessment due to the uncertain nature of such matters. As additional information becomes available, we reassess potential liabilities related to pending claims and litigation and may revise our previous estimates, which could materially affect our results of operations in a given period. 2024 Outlook We believe that we are well-positioned to benefit from significant market opportunities in each of our business segments. Please see Item 1 Business - Industry Trends for additional information on the outlook for the industries we serve and a detailed discussion of our market opportunities. Our future results could be adversely affected by the matters discussed in the Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements, Item 1A. Risk Factors and Item 3. Legal Proceedings of this Form 10-K. 38 Comparison of Fiscal Year Results The following table, which may contain slight summation differences due to rounding, reflects our consolidated results of operations in dollar and percentage of revenue terms for the periods indicated (dollar amounts in millions). Our consolidated results of operations are not necessarily comparable from period to period due to the effect of recent acquisitions and certain other items, which are described in the comparison of results section below. In this discussion, acquisition results are defined as results from acquired businesses for the first twelve months following the dates of the respective acquisitions, with the balance of results for a particular item attributed to organic activity. For the Years Ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 Revenue $ 11,995.9 100.0 % $ 9,778.0 100.0 % $ 7,951.8 100.0 % Costs of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization 10,613.8 88.5 % 8,586.3 87.8 % 6,805.7 85.6 % Depreciation 433.9 3.6 % 371.2 3.8 % 345.6 4.3 % Amortization of intangible assets 169.2 1.4 % 135.9 1.4 % 77.2 1.0 % General and administrative expenses 698.9 5.8 % 559.4 5.7 % 307.0 3.9 % Interest expense, net 234.4 2.0 % 112.3 1.1 % 53.4 0.7 % Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, net (30.7) (0.3) % (28.8) (0.3) % (33.8) (0.4) % Other income, net (40.9) (0.3) % (1.4) (0.0) % (33.4) (0.4) % (Loss) income before income taxes $ (82.7) (0.7) % $ 43.1 0.4 % $ 430.1 5.4 % Benefit from (provision for) income taxes 35.4 0.3 % (9.2) (0.1) % (99.3) (1.2) % Net (loss) income $ (47.3) (0.4) % $ 33.9 0.3 % $ 330.7 4.2 % Net income attributable to non-controlling interests 2.7 0.0 % 0.5 0.0 % 1.9 0.0 % Net (loss) income attributable to MasTec, Inc. $ (49.9) (0.4) % $ 33.4 0.3 % $ 328.8 4.1 % We review our operating results by reportable segment. See Note 13 - Segments and Related Information in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated by reference. Our reportable segments are: (1) Communications; (2) Clean Energy and Infrastructure; (3) Power Delivery; (4) Oil and Gas and (5) Other. Management review of segment results includes analyses of trends in revenue, EBITDA and EBITDA margin. EBITDA for segment reporting purposes is calculated consistently with our consolidated EBITDA calculation. See the discussion of our non-U.S. GAAP financial measures, including certain adjusted non-U.S. GAAP measures, as described below, following the comparison of results discussion. The following table presents revenue, EBITDA and EBITDA margin by segment for the periods indicated (dollar amounts in millions): For the Years Ended December 31, Revenue EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Segment: 2023 2022 2021 2023 (a) 2022 (a) 2021 (a) Communications $ 3,259.5 $ 3,233.7 $ 2,551.1 $ 269.2 8.3 % $ 327.1 10.1 % $ 269.5 10.6 % Clean Energy and Infrastructure 3,962.0 2,618.6 1,865.0 132.4 3.3 % 102.8 3.9 % 75.0 4.0 % Power Delivery 2,735.1 2,725.2 1,016.8 207.8 7.6 % 202.9 7.4 % 68.0 6.7 % Oil and Gas 2,072.8 1,219.6 2,540.5 284.4 13.7 % 163.5 13.4 % 557.6 21.9 % Other 0.0 25.0 NM 31.8 NM 33.8 NM Eliminations (33.5) (19.1) (21.6) Segment Total $ 11,995.9 $ 9,778.0 $ 7,951.8 $ 918.8 7.7 % $ 828.1 8.5 % $ 1,003.8 12.6 % Corporate (163.9) (165.6) (97.5) Consolidated Total $ 11,995.9 $ 9,778.0 $ 7,951.8 $ 754.9 6.3 % $ 662.5 6.8 % $ 906.3 11.4 % NM - Percentage is not meaningful (a) For the year ended December 31, 2023, Communications, Clean Energy and Infrastructure and Power Delivery EBITDA included $22.5 million, $37.1 million and $8.5 million, respectively, of acquisition and integration costs related to our recent acquisitions, and Corporate EBITDA included $3.8 million of such costs. For the year ended December 31, 2022, $4.7 million, $6.4 million, $39.0 million and $8.0 million of such costs were included within Communications, Clean Energy and Infrastructure, Power Delivery and Oil and Gas EBITDA, respectively, and Corporate EBITDA included $27.9 million of such costs. For the year ended December 31, 2021, Corporate EBITDA included $3.6 million of such acquisition and integration costs. 39 Comparison of Years Ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 Revenue . For the year ended December 31, 2023, consolidated revenue totaled $12.0 billion as compared with $9.8 billion in 2022, an increase of approximately $2.2 billion, or 23%. Revenue increased in our Clean Energy and Infrastructure segment by approximately $1,343 million, or 51%, in our Oil and Gas segment by approximately $853 million, or 70%, in our Communications segment by approximately $26 million, or 1%, and in our Power Delivery segment by approximately $10 million. Acquisitions contributed $1,546 million of increased revenue for the year ended December 31, 2023 and organic revenue increased by approximately $672 million, or 6.9%, as compared with 2022. See below for details of revenue by segment. Communications Segment . Communications revenue was $3,260 million in 2023, as compared with $3,234 million in 2022, an increase of $26 million, or 1%. Acquisitions contributed $149 million of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2023, whereas organic revenue decreased by approximately $123 million, or 4%, as compared with 2022. The decrease in organic revenue was driven primarily by lower levels of wireless and install-to-the-home project activity due, in part, to the effect of macroeconomic conditions on project activity levels, reflecting delays partially driven by customers higher financing costs, and, for install-to-the-home activities, certain changes in consumer behavior, offset, in part, by an increase in wireline and utility project work. Clean Energy and Infrastructure Segment . Clean Energy and Infrastructure revenue was $3,962 million in 2023, as compared with $2,619 million in 2022, an increase of $1,343 million, or 51%. Acquisitions contributed $1,383 million of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2023, whereas organic revenue decreased by approximately $39 million, or 2%, as compared with 2022, due primarily to lower levels of certain industrial infrastructure project work, offset, in part, by higher levels of renewable and heavy civil project activity, due primarily to timing of project work. Power Delivery Segment . Power Delivery revenue was $2,735 million in 2023, as compared with $2,725 million in 2022, an increase of $10 million. For the year ended December 31, 2023, acquisitions contributed $15 million of revenue, whereas organic revenue decreased by approximately $5 million as compared with 2022. Higher levels of organic project activity, including for transmission and substation-related project work, were offset by a reduction in storm restoration services, as well as certain facilities and other infrastructure-related project work. Oil and Gas Segment . Oil and Gas revenue was $2,073 million in 2023, as compared with $1,220 million in 2022, an increase of approximately $853 million, or 70%, due primarily to higher levels of project activity, including large-diameter, midstream and other pipeline project activity, as well as pipeline integrity services, partially offset by a reduction in certain facilities and other infrastructure-related project work. Costs of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization. Costs of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization, increased by approximately $2.0 billion, or 24%, to $10.6 billion in 2023 from $8.6 billion in 2022. Higher levels of revenue contributed an increase of $1,948 million in costs of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization, and reduced productivity contributed an increase of approximately $80 million. Costs of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization, as a percentage of revenue increased by approximately 70 basis points to 88.5% of revenue in 2023 from 87.8% of revenue in 2022. The basis point increase was due to a combination of reduced project efficiencies, primarily within our Communications segment, as well as the effects of certain overhead costs incurred to maintain operating capacity in support of expected future project work and the effects of inflation on labor, material and other costs across our businesses, offset, in part, by improved productivity within our Oil and Gas segment, as well as a $22 million decrease in certain acquisition and integration costs and the positive effects of certain project close-outs. Depreciation. Depreciation was $434 million, or 3.6% of revenue, in 2023, as compared with $371 million, or 3.8% of revenue, in 2022, an increase of $63 million, or 17%. Acquisitions contributed $34 million of depreciation for the year ended December 31, 2023, and organic depreciation increased by $29 million, or approximately 8%, due primarily to the effect on depreciation of capital expenditures in 2022 in support of certain prior year growth initiatives and to address prior year supply chain disruption concerns, as well as an increase in depreciation expense in 2023 related to current year growth initiatives. These increases were offset, in part, by a $6 million reduction in depreciation expense in 2023 related to a change in the depreciable lives of certain assets to better align the respective assets lives with their expected useful lives. As a percentage of revenue, depreciation decreased by approximately 20 basis points, due primarily to higher levels of revenue. Amortization of intangible assets. Amortization of intangible assets was $169 million, or 1.4% of revenue, in 2023, as compared with $136 million, or 1.4% of revenue, for the same period in 2022, an increase of approximately $33 million, or 25%. Acquisitions contributed approximately $44 million of amortization for the year ended December 31, 2023, whereas organic amortization decreased by approximately $11 million, or 8% due primarily to the effects of timing of amortization for certain assets. As a percentage of revenue, amortization of intangible assets was generally flat as compared with the prior year. General and administrative expenses . General and administrative expenses totaled $699 million, or 5.8% of revenue, in 2023, as compared with $559 million, or 5.7% of revenue, in 2022, an increase of $139 million, or 25%. Acquisitions, including certain acquisition and integration costs, contributed $121 million of general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2023, and organic general and administrative expenses increased by approximately $19 million, or 3%, as compared with 2022, primarily due to a reduction in gains on sales of assets, net, and an increase in the provision for credit losses, as well as increases in various administrative costs, including compensation and information technology expenses, offset, in part, by a reduction in professional fees and other miscellaneous administrative costs, including the effect of a reduction in organic acquisition and integration costs . Total acquisition and integration costs included within general and administrative expenses increased to $64 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 from approximately $52 million in 2022. Overall, general and administrative expenses increased by approximately 10 basis points as a percentage of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared with 2022. Interest expense, net. Interest expense, net of interest income, was approximately $234 million, or 2.0% of revenue, in 2023, as compared with approximately $112 million, or 1.1% of revenue, in 2022, an increase of approximately $122 million, or 109%. The increase in interest expense, net, resulted primarily from credit facility activity and term loans, which accounted for approximately $96 million of the increase due to higher average balances, including from indebtedness incurred in connection with acquisition activity, including $700 million of additional unsecured term loans entered into in connection with the acquisition of IEA in the fourth quarter of 2022, as well as higher average interest rates on our floating rate debt 40 as compared with 2022. In addition, interest expense from senior notes increased by $15 million due to the assumption, exchange and issuance of $300 million aggregate principal amount of 6.625% senior notes in connection with the IEA acquisition. See Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources discussion below for details of our debt instruments. Additionally, interest expense from accounts receivable financing arrangements increased by approximately $4 million due primarily to higher average interest rates and higher average balances, including from arrangements entered into in the second half of 2023. See Note 5 - Accounts Receivable, Net of Allowance, and Contract Assets and Liabilities, which is incorporated by reference, for details of our financing arrangements. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates. For the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, equity in earnings from unconsolidated affiliates, net, totaled approximately $31 million and $29 million, respectively, and related primarily to our investments in the Waha JVs, and, to a lesser extent, our investments in certain other entities. Other income, net. Other income, net, was $41 million, in 2023, as compared with $1 million in 2022. For the year ended December 31, 2023, other income, net, included approximately $13 million of income, net, from changes to estimated Earn-out accruals, approximately $3 million of income from the final settlement and expiration of certain warrants related to the acquisition of IEA, approximately $29 million of other miscellaneous income, including from insurance, legal and other settlements, and approximately $1 million of income from changes in the fair value of additional contingent payments to the former owners of an acquired business, offset, in part, by approximately $3 million of impairment losses on an investment. For the year ended December 31, 2022, other income, net, included approximately $1 million of income, net, from changes to estimated Earn-out accruals, $2 million of income from the changes in the fair value of additional contingent payments to former owners of an acquired business, $7 million of income from insurance and other settlements, and approximately $5 million of other miscellaneous income, net, offset, in part, by approximately $7 million of expense from changes in the fair value of our investment in American Virtual Cloud Technologies, Inc. ( AVCT ), net of income from strategic arrangements, $3 million of expense from changes in the fair value of IEA warrants and approximately $5 million of acquisition and integration and business streamlining costs. Benefit from (provision for) income taxes. Income tax benefit was $35 million in 2023, as compared with $9 million of income tax expense in 2022. Pre-tax losses totaled $83 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared with $43 million of pre-tax income for the same period in 2022. For the year ended December 31, 2023, our effective tax rate was a benefit of 42.8% as compared with an expense of 21.3% for the same period in 2022. Our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2023 included a benefit of approximately $8 million related to adjustments resulting from the finalization of our 2022 tax returns and the effects of a net tax benefit of approximately $11 million from share-based payment awards, offset, in part, by an increase in non-deductible expenses. For the year ended December 31, 2022, our effective tax rate included a benefit of approximately $12 million from adjustments related to the finalization of our 2021 tax returns and from the true-up of certain prior year non-deductible expenses, as well as a net tax benefit of approximately $1 million from share-based payment awards. Analysis of EBITDA by Segment Communications Segment. EBITDA for our Communications segment was $269 million, or 8.3% of revenue, in 2023, as compared with EBITDA of $327 million, or 10.1% of revenue in 2022, a decrease of approximately $58 million, or 18%. As a percentage of revenue, EBITDA decreased by approximately 190 basis points, or approximately $61 million, due primarily to reduced operating leverage from lower levels of wireless revenue, as well as reduced project efficiencies, including the effects of inflation on labor, material and other costs, and an increase of approximately $18 million in certain acquisition and integration costs, offset, in part, by the positive effects of certain project close-outs. Higher levels of revenue contributed an increase in EBITDA of approximately $3 million. Clean Energy and Infrastructure Segment. EBITDA for our Clean Energy and Infrastructure segment was $132 million, or 3.3% of revenue, in 2023, as compared with $103 million, or 3.9% of revenue in 2022, an increase in EBITDA of approximately $30 million, or 29%. Higher levels of revenue contributed an increase in EBITDA of approximately $53 million. As a percentage of revenue, EBITDA decreased by approximately 60 basis points, or $23 million, due to a combination of reduced productivity, primarily from the effects of certain overhead costs incurred to maintain operating capacity in support of expected future project work as well as inefficiencies on certain legacy industrial projects; an increase of approximately $31 million in certain acquisition and integration costs; project mix; and the effects of inflation on labor, material and other costs, offset, in part, by improved efficiencies on certain renewable projects and the positive effects of certain project close-outs. Power Delivery Segment. EBITDA for our Power Delivery segment was approximately $208 million, or 7.6% of revenue in 2023, as compared with EBITDA of $203 million, or 7.4% of revenue in 2022, an increase in EBITDA of approximately $5 million, or 2%. As a percentage of revenue, EBITDA increased by approximately 20 basis points, or $4 million, due primarily to improved project efficiencies and a reduction of approximately $31 million in certain acquisition and integration costs, offset, in part, by the effects of a reduction in emergency restoration services and the effects of inflation on labor, material and other costs. Higher levels of revenue contributed an increase in EBITDA of $1 million. Oil and Gas Segment. EBITDA for our Oil and Gas segment was $284 million, or 13.7% of revenue in 2023, as compared with EBITDA of $164 million, or 13.4% of revenue in 2022, an increase of $121 million, or 74%. Higher levels of revenue contributed an increase in EBITDA of $114 million. As a percentage of revenue, EBITDA margins increased by approximately 30 basis, or approximately $6 million, due primarily to project efficiencies and improved productivity, including as a result of improved operating leverage from higher levels of revenue, as well as the effects of project mix, certain project close-outs and a reduction of approximately $8 million in certain acquisition and integration costs, offset, in part, by the effects of inflation on labor, material and other costs. Other Segment. EBITDA from Other businesses totaled approximately $25 million and $32 million for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. EBITDA from Other businesses relates primarily to equity in earnings from our investments in the Waha JVs. In 2023, EBITDA from Other businesses also included approximately $3 million of impairment losses on an investment, and in 2022, included project results from a non-controlled joint venture. In both years, EBITDA from Other businesses also included losses from certain other businesses and investments. 41 Corporate. Corporate EBITDA was negative $164 million in 2023, as compared with EBITDA of negative $166 million in 2022, for an increase in EBITDA of approximately $2 million. Acquisition and integration costs included within corporate expenses decreased to approximately $4 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 from $28 million in 2022. For the year ended December 31, 2023, Corporate EBITDA included approximately $13 million of income, net, from changes to estimated Earn-out accruals, $3 million of income from the final settlement and expiration of certain warrants related to the acquisition of IEA and $1 million of income from changes in the fair value of additional contingent payments to the former owners of acquired business. For the year ended December 31, 2022, Corporate EBITDA included approximately $7 million of expense from changes in the fair value of certain investments, net of income from strategic arrangements, $3 million of expense from changes in the fair value of IEA warrants, offset, in part, by $2 million of income from changes in the fair value of additional contingent payments to the former owners of an acquired business and $1 million of income, net, from changes to estimated Earn-out accruals. Corporate expenses in 2023 not related to the above-described items increased by approximately $22 million as compared with 2022, due primarily to increases in compensation expense and other administrative expenses as well as the effects of timing of ordinary course legal and other settlement matters, offset, in part, by other miscellaneous income, net, including from insurance and other settlements. Comparison of Years Ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 Refer to Item 7, Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Comparison of Years Ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 of the Company 2022 Annual Report on Form 10-K ( the 2022 Form 10-K ) for a comparison of results for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, which discussion is incorporated herein by reference. Foreign Operations Our foreign operations are primarily in Canada. See Note 13 - Segments and Related Information in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated by reference. Non-U.S. GAAP Financial Measures As appropriate, we supplement our reported U.S. GAAP financial information with certain non-U.S. GAAP financial measures, including earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization ( EBITDA ), adjusted EBITDA ( Adjusted EBITDA ), adjusted net income ( Adjusted Net Income ) and adjusted diluted earnings per share ( Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share ). These adjusted non-U.S. GAAP measures exclude, as applicable to the respective periods, non-cash stock-based compensation expense; acquisition and integration costs related to our recent acquisitions, as more fully described below; fair value gains or losses, net, on an investment; project results from an acquisition-related proportionately consolidated non-controlled Canadian joint venture that was underway at the time of the related acquisition, which joint venture was managed by a third party and automatically terminated upon completion of the project; the bargain purchase gain from a prior year acquisition; and, for Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share, amortization of intangible assets, the effects of statutory and other tax rate changes, and the tax effects of the adjusted items. These definitions of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are not the same as in our Credit Facility or in the indenture governing our senior notes; therefore, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA as presented in this discussion should not be used for purposes of determining our compliance with the covenants contained in our debt instruments. We use EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, as well as Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share, to evaluate our performance, both internally and as compared with our peers, because these measures exclude certain items that may not be indicative of our core operating results, as well as items that can vary widely across different industries or among companies within the same industry. We believe that these adjusted measures provide a baseline for analyzing trends in our underlying business. Non-cash stock-based compensation expense can be subject to volatility from changes in the market price per share of our common stock or variations in the value and number of shares granted, and amortization of intangible assets is subject to acquisition activity, which varies from period to period. In 2021, we initiated a significant transformation of our end-market business operations to focus on the nation transition to low-carbon energy sources and position the Company for expected future opportunities. This transformation included significant acquisition activity to expand our scale and capacity in renewable energy, power delivery, heavy civil and telecommunications services, and resulted in significant acquisition and integration costs. Due to the extent of the acquisition costs related to this acquisition activity and the extent of the efforts that were required to integrate these acquisitions, we have excluded acquisition and integration costs related to this acquisition activity in our computation of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted Net Income. As of December 31, 2023, these acquisition and integration efforts were substantially complete, and any such costs in the future are not expected to be material. Our adjusted results also exclude fair value gains or losses, net, for our investment in AVCT. We believe that fair value gains or losses for our investment in AVCT, a company in which we had no active involvement and for which fair value activity varied from period to period based on fluctuations in the market price of the investment, are not indicative of our core operations, and that this presentation improves comparability of our results with those of our peers. AVCT filed for bankruptcy in the first quarter of 2023, and our investment was fully written off. We exclude intangible asset amortization and selected purchase accounting adjustments, including the bargain purchase gain from a prior year acquisition, from our adjusted measures due to their non-operational nature and inherent volatility, as acquisition activity varies from period to period. Note that while intangible asset amortization related to the assets of acquired entities is excluded from our non-U.S. GAAP financial measures, our non-U.S. GAAP financial measures include the revenue and all other expenses of the acquired entities, unless otherwise stated. We also believe that this presentation is common practice in our industry and improves comparability of our results with those of our peers. We have also excluded the effects of statutory and other tax rate changes from Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share given their inherent volatility due to uncertainty with regard to our future geographic footprint and the associated tax rates, which may vary significantly from period to period, and, for statutory tax rate changes, due to their non-operational nature. Each company definitions of these adjusted measures may vary as they are not standardized and should be used together with the provided reconciliations. We believe that these non-U.S. GAAP financial measures provide meaningful information and help investors understand our financial results and assess our prospects for future performance. Because non-U.S. GAAP financial measures are not standardized, it may not be possible to 42 compare these financial measures with other companies non-U.S. GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names. These financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, as substitutes for, or alternative measures of, reported net income or diluted earnings per share, and should be viewed in conjunction with the most comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures and the provided reconciliations thereto. We believe these non-U.S. GAAP financial measures, when viewed together with our U.S. GAAP results and related reconciliations, provide a more complete understanding of our business. We strongly encourage investors to review our consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and not rely on any single financial measure. The following table presents a reconciliation of net income to EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA in dollar and percentage of revenue terms, for the periods indicated. The tables below (dollar amounts in millions) may contain slight summation differences due to rounding. For the Years Ended December 31, EBITDA Reconciliation: 2023 2022 2021 Net (loss) income $ (47.3) (0.4) % $ 33.9 0.3 % $ 330.7 4.2 % Interest expense, net 234.4 2.0 % 112.3 1.1 % 53.4 0.7 % (Benefit from) provision for income taxes (35.4) (0.3) % 9.2 0.1 % 99.3 1.2 % Depreciation 433.9 3.6 % 371.2 3.8 % 345.6 4.3 % Amortization of intangible assets 169.2 1.4 % 135.9 1.4 % 77.2 1.0 % EBITDA $ 754.9 6.3 % $ 662.5 6.8 % $ 906.3 11.4 % Non-cash stock-based compensation expense 33.3 0.3 % 27.4 0.3 % 24.8 0.3 % Acquisition and integration costs 71.9 0.6 % 86.0 0.9 % 3.6 0.0 % Losses, net, on fair value of investment 0.2 0.0 % 7.7 0.1 % 7.8 0.1 % Project results from non-controlled joint venture % (2.8) (0.0) % % Bargain purchase gain % (0.2) (0.0) % (3.5) (0.0) % Adjusted EBITDA $ 860.3 7.2 % $ 780.6 8.0 % $ 939.1 11.8 % A reconciliation of EBITDA and EBITDA margin to Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin by segment for the periods indicated is as follows: For the Years Ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 EBITDA $ 754.9 6.3 % $ 662.5 6.8 % $ 906.3 11.4 % Non-cash stock-based compensation expense (a) 33.3 0.3 % 27.4 0.3 % 24.8 0.3 % Acquisition and integration costs (b) 71.9 0.6 % 86.0 0.9 % 3.6 0.0 % Losses, net, on fair value of investment (a) 0.2 0.0 % 7.7 0.1 % 7.8 0.1 % Project results from non-controlled joint venture (c) % (2.8) (0.0) % % Bargain purchase gain (a) % (0.2) (0.0) % (3.5) (0.0) % Adjusted EBITDA $ 860.3 7.2 % $ 780.6 8.0 % $ 939.1 11.8 % Segment: Communications $ 291.7 8.9 % $ 331.8 10.3 % $ 269.5 10.6 % Clean Energy and Infrastructure 169.5 4.3 % 109.2 4.2 % 75.0 4.0 % Power Delivery 216.3 7.9 % 241.9 8.9 % 68.0 6.7 % Oil and Gas 284.4 13.7 % 171.5 14.1 % 557.6 21.9 % Other 25.0 NM 29.0 NM 33.8 NM Segment Total $ 986.9 8.2 % $ 883.4 9.0 % $ 1,003.9 12.6 % Corporate (126.6) (102.8) (64.8) Adjusted EBITDA $ 860.3 7.2 % $ 780.6 8.0 % $ 939.1 11.8 % NM - Percentage is not meaningful (a) Non-cash stock-based compensation expense, losses, net, on the fair value of an investment and the bargain purchase gain from a prior year acquisition are included within Corporate EBITDA. (b) For the year ended December 31, 2023, Communications, Clean Energy and Infrastructure and Power Delivery EBITDA included $22.5 million, $37.1 million and $8.5 million, respectively, of acquisition and integration costs related to our recent acquisitions, and Corporate EBITDA included $3.8 million of such costs. For the year ended December 31, 2022, $4.7 million, $6.4 million, $39.0 million, $8.0 million of such costs were included within Communications, Clean Energy and Infrastructure, Power Delivery and Oil and Gas EBITDA, respectively, and Corporate EBITDA included $27.9 million of such costs. For the year ended December 31, 2021, Corporate EBITDA included $3.6 million of such acquisition and integration costs. (c) Project results from a non-controlled joint venture are included within Other segment EBITDA. 43 The tables below, which may contain slight summation differences due to rounding, reconcile reported net income and reported diluted earnings per share, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures, to Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share. For the Years Ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 Net (loss) income $ (47.3) $ 33.9 $ 330.7 Adjustments: Non-cash stock-based compensation expense 33.3 27.4 24.8 Amortization of intangible assets 169.2 135.9 77.2 Acquisition and integration costs 71.9 86.0 3.6 Losses, net, on fair value of investment 0.2 7.7 7.8 Project results from non-controlled joint venture (2.8) Bargain purchase gain (0.2) (3.5) Total adjustments, pre-tax $ 274.7 $ 254.1 $ 110.0 Income tax effect of adjustments (a) (75.3) (58.6) (27.4) Statutory and other tax rate effects (b) 4.6 5.5 6.7 Adjusted net income $ 156.7 $ 234.8 $ 420.0 For the Years Ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 Diluted (loss) earnings per share $ (0.64) $ 0.42 $ 4.45 Adjustments: Non-cash stock-based compensation expense 0.43 0.36 0.34 Amortization of intangible assets 2.16 1.78 1.04 Acquisition and integration costs 0.92 1.13 0.05 Losses, net, on fair value of investment 0.00 0.10 0.11 Project results from non-controlled joint venture (0.04) Bargain purchase gain (0.00) (0.05) Total adjustments, pre-tax $ 3.51 $ 3.34 $ 1.49 Income tax effect of adjustments (a) (0.96) (0.77) (0.37) Statutory and other tax rate effects (b) 0.06 0.07 0.09 Adjusted diluted earnings per share $ 1.97 $ 3.05 $ 5.65 (a) Represents the tax effects of the adjusted items that are subject to tax, including the tax effects of non-cash stock-based compensation expense, including from share-based payment awards. Tax effects are determined based on the tax treatment of the related item, the incremental statutory tax rate of the jurisdictions pertaining to the adjustment, and their effects on pre-tax income. For the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, our consolidated effective tax rates, as reported, were a benefit of 42.8% and an expense of 21.3% and 23.1%, respectively, and as adjusted, were an expense of 18.4%, 21.0%, and 22.2%, respectively. (b) Represents the effects of statutory and other tax rate changes for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021. Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations, availability under our Credit Facility and our cash balances. Our primary liquidity needs are for working capital, capital expenditures, insurance and performance collateral in the form of cash and letters of credit, debt service, income taxes, earn-out obligations and equity and other investment funding requirements. We also evaluate opportunities for strategic acquisitions, investments and other arrangements from time to time, and we may consider opportunities to refinance, extend the terms of our existing indebtedness, retire outstanding debt, borrow additional funds, which may include borrowings under our Credit Facility or debt issuances, or repurchase additional shares of our outstanding common stock under share repurchase authorizations, any of which may require our use of cash. Capital Expenditures . For the year ended December 31, 2023, we spent approximately $193 million on capital expenditures, or $109 million, net of asset disposals, and incurred approximately $148 million of equipment purchases under finance leases and other financing arrangements. We estimate that we will spend approximately $175 million on capital expenditures, or approximately $125 million, net of asset disposals, in 2024, and we expect to incur approximately $150 million of equipment purchases under finance leases and other financing arrangements. Actual capital expenditures may increase or decrease in the future depending upon business activity levels, as well as ongoing assessments of equipment lease and other financing arrangements versus purchase decisions based on management evaluation of short and long-term equipment requirements. Acquisitions and Earn-Out Liabilities . We typically utilize cash for business acquisitions and other strategic arrangements, and for the year ended December 31, 2023, we used $69 million of cash for this purpose. In addition, in most of our acquisitions, we have agreed to make future 44 payments to the sellers that are contingent upon the future earnings performance of the acquired businesses, which we also refer to as Earn-out payments. Earn-out payments may be paid in cash or, under specific circumstances, MasTec common stock, or a combination thereof, generally at our option. The estimated total value of future Earn-out liabilities as of December 31, 2023 was approximately $77 million. Of this amount, approximately $22 million represents the liability for earned amounts. The remainder is management estimate of Earn-out liabilities that are contingent upon future performance. For the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, we made payments of $39 million, $38 million and $47 million, respectively, related to our Earn-out liabilities. Our acquisition of HMG provided for certain additional payments to be made to the sellers if certain acquired receivables are collected, which we refer to as the Additional Payments. Pursuant to the terms of the HMG purchase agreement, a portion of the Additional Payments will be made in cash, with the remainder due in shares of MasTec common stock. An Additional Payment of approximately $29 million was made in May 2022, which payment was composed of approximately $18 million in cash and 133,157 shares of MasTec common stock. As of December 31, 2023, the estimated fair value of remaining Additional Payments was approximately $34 million, which for the year ended December 31, 2023, includes the effect of unrealized fair value gains related to the contingent shares of approximately $1 million and a reduction of approximately $2 million in the estimated remaining liability from changes in collections attributed to acquired balances. The number of shares that would be paid in connection with the remaining Additional Payments as of December 31, 2023 is approximately 160,000 shares. In addition, the HMG purchase agreement provided for a customary net working capital adjustment, which adjustment was resolved in the second quarter of 2022 for a reduction of approximately $15 million in acquisition consideration. Consideration for the IEA acquisition included the value of certain IEA warrants. A fair value gain of approximately $3 million was recognized in 2023 related primarily to certain unexercised IEA warrants that expired on March 26, 2023. Income Taxes . Tax payments, net of tax refunds, totaled $10 million, $9 million and $69 million for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021. The year-to-year fluctuations in tax payments largely correspond to the changes in taxable net income for the respective years. Working Capital. We need working capital to support seasonal and other variations in our business, primarily related to the effects of weather conditions on outdoor construction and maintenance work and the spending patterns of our customers, both of which influence the timing of associated spending to support customer demand. Working capital needs are generally higher during the summer and fall months due to increased demand for our services when favorable weather conditions exist in many of the regions in which we operate. Conversely, working capital needs are typically converted to cash during the winter months. These seasonal trends, however, can be offset by changes in the timing of projects, which can be affected by project delays or accelerations and/or other factors that may affect customer spending. Working capital requirements also tend to increase when we commence multiple projects or particularly large projects because labor, including subcontractor costs, and certain other costs, including inventory and materials requirements, typically become payable before the receivables resulting from work performed are collected. The timing of billings and project close-outs can also contribute to changes in billed and unbilled revenue. As of December 31, 2023, we expect that substantially all of our unbilled receivables will be billed to customers in the normal course of business within the next twelve months. Total accounts receivable, which consists of contract billings, unbilled receivables and retainage, net of allowance, totaled approximately $3.1 billion as of both December 31, 2023 and 2022. See below for discussion of our days sales outstanding, net of contract liabilities, which we refer to as days sales outstanding, or DSO. Our payment billing terms are generally net 30 days, and some of our contracts allow our customers to retain a portion of the contract amount (generally, from 5% to 10% of billings) until the job is completed, which amounts are referred to as retainage. As part of our ongoing working capital management practices, we evaluate opportunities to improve our working capital cycle time through contractual provisions and certain financing arrangements. For certain customers, we maintain inventory to meet the materials requirements of the contracts. Occasionally, certain of our customers pay us in advance for a portion of the materials we purchase for their projects or allow us to pre-bill them for materials purchases up to specified amounts. Vendor terms are generally 30 days. Our agreements with subcontractors often contain a pay-if-paid provision, whereby our payments are contractually due to subcontractors only after we are paid by our customers. Summary of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources Including our current assessment of general economic and market conditions on our results of operations and capital resource requirements, we anticipate that funds generated from operations, borrowings under our credit facilities and our cash balances will be sufficient to meet our working capital requirements, anticipated capital expenditures, debt service obligations, insurance and performance collateral requirements, letter of credit needs, earn-out obligations, required income tax payments, as well as potential acquisition, strategic arrangement and investment funding requirements and/or share repurchase activity and other liquidity needs for the next twelve months and the foreseeable future. Sources and Uses of Cash As of December 31, 2023, we had approximately $1,137 million in working capital, defined as current assets less current liabilities, as compared with $1,363 million as of December 31, 2022, a decrease of approximately $226 million. Cash and cash equivalents totaled approximately $530 million and $371 million as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, for an increase of $159 million. See discussion below for further detail regarding our cash flows and related activity. Sources and uses of cash are summarized below (in millions): For the Years Ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 687.3 $ 352.3 $ 793.1 Net cash used in investing activities $ (178.1) $ (821.2) $ (1,357.2) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities $ (351.0) $ 480.9 $ 501.9 45 Operating Activities. Cash flow from operations is primarily influenced by changes in the timing of demand for our services and operating margins, but can also be affected by working capital needs associated with the various types of services we provide. Working capital is affected by changes in total accounts receivable, prepaid expenses and other current assets, accounts payable and payroll tax payments, accrued expenses and contract liabilities, all of which tend to be related. These working capital items are affected by changes in revenue resulting from the timing and volume of work performed, variability in the timing of customer billings and collections of receivables, as well as settlement of payables and other obligations. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2023 was $687 million, as compared with $352 million in 2022, for an increase in cash provided by operating activities of approximately $335 million, due primarily to the effect of timing-related changes in working capital-related assets and liabilities, net, including from the positive effect of changes in accounts receivable, net, resulting from improved collections, as described in further detail below, as well as the positive effect in 2023 of lower levels of inventory and materials purchasing activity as compared with 2022, during which period we increased our purchasing activity to address supply chain disruptions and inflation concerns. The above described items, which increased cash provided by operating activities, were partially offset by (i) a decrease in net income and (ii) the effect of a net decrease in expenses that reconcile net income to operating cash flows, including a decrease in the provision for deferred income taxes, offset, in part, by increases in depreciation expense and amortization of intangible assets. DSO is calculated as total accounts receivable, net of allowance, less contract liabilities, divided by average daily revenue for the most recently completed quarter as of the balance sheet date. Our DSO was 74 as of December 31, 2023, as compared with DSO of 83 as of December 31, 2022. Our DSOs can fluctuate from period to period due to timing of billings, billing terms, collections and settlements, timing of project close-outs and retainage collections, changes in project and customer mix and the effect of working capital initiatives, including certain accounts receivable financing arrangements. The decrease in DSO as of December 31, 2023 as compared with December 31, 2022 was due to the benefit of improved cash collections, including from the timing of ordinary course billing and collection activities, as well as the effects of certain accounts receivable financing arrangements, which are described in further detail in Note 5 - Accounts Receivable, Net of Allowance, and Contract Assets and Liabilities, which is incorporated by reference. Other than ordinary course matters subject to litigation, we do not anticipate material collection issues related to our outstanding accounts receivable balances, nor do we believe that we have material amounts due from customers experiencing financial difficulties. Based on current information, we expect to collect substantially all of our outstanding accounts receivable balances within the next twelve months. Investing Activities. Net cash used in investing activities decreased by approximately $643 million to $178 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 from $821 million in 2022. We completed four acquisitions during the year ended December 31, 2023, for which we paid $69 million in cash, net of cash acquired, a decrease of approximately $566 million as compared with 2022, in which period we completed five acquisitions, including the acquisition of IEA. Capital expenditures totaled $193 million, or $109 million, net of asset disposals, in 2023, as compared with $263 million, or $182 million, net of asset disposals, in 2022, for a decrease in cash used in investing activities of approximately $73 million, due to the effect in 2023 of acceleration of capital expenditures in the prior year to address certain growth initiatives and supply chain disruption concerns. Payments for other investments, which relate primarily to investments in certain equity investees as well as payments for split dollar life insurance agreements, decreased from $4 million in 2022 to $2 million in 2023. Financing Activities. Net cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2023 was $351 million, as compared with net cash provided by financing activities of $481 million in 2022, for an increase in cash used in financin g activities of approximately $832 million. For the year ended December 31, 2023, credit facility-related repayments, net of borrowings, including term loan activity, totaled $132 million, as compared with $824 million of credit facility-related borrowings, net of repayments, including term loan activity, in 2022, for an increase in repayments, net of borrowings of approximately $956 million. This increase was driven, in large part, by $700 million in new term loans that were incurred in 2022 in connection with the acquisition of IEA. Additionally, payments to holders of our non-controlling interests increased by $14 million in 2023 as compared with 2022, primarily related to the purchase of certain non-controlling interests in 2023. The above described increases in cash used in financing activities were offset, in part, by a reduction in payments for share repurchases, among other items. There were no share repurchases for the year ended December 31, 2023, whereas share repurchases in 2022 totaled $81 million. Payments of finance lease obligations decreased by approximately $14 million in 2023 as compared with 2022, and payments of acquisition-related contingent consideration included within financing activities decreased to $22 million in 2023 from $35 million in 2022, for a reduction in cash used in financing activities from acquisition-related contingent consideration of $14 million. Total payments of acquisition-related contingent consideration, including payments in excess of acquisition-date liabilities, which are classified within operating activities, totaled $39 million in 2023 as compared with $38 million in 2022. Payments for acquisition-related contingent assets totaled approximately $18 million in 2022 and related to the HMG acquisition, whereas in 2023, there were no payments. Additionally, other financing activities, net, which includes amounts paid for other borrowings and transaction-related financing activities, including payments of financing costs, totaled payments of $5 million in 2023 as compared with $23 million in 2022, for a reduction of $18 million in cash used in financing activities. Senior Credit Facility We have a $2.25 billion senior unsecured credit facility (as amended from time to time, the Credit Facility ), which is composed of $1.9 billion of revolving commitments and a Term Loan with an original principal amount of $350 million, and matures on November 1, 2026. As of December 31, 2023, aggregate outstanding revolving borrowings totaled $773 million and availability for revolving loans totaled $1,062 million. Borrowings under our Credit Facility are used for working capital requirements, capital expenditures and other corporate purposes, including acquisitions, equity investments or other strategic arrangements, and/or the repurchase or prepayment of indebtedness, among other corporate borrowing requirements, including potential share repurchases. We are dependent upon borrowings and letters of credit under our Credit Facility to fund our operations. Should we be unable to comply with the terms and conditions of our Credit Facility, we would be required to obtain modifications to the Credit Facility or obtain an alternative source of financing to continue to operate, neither of which may be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The Credit Facility is subject to certain provisions and covenants, as more fully described in Note 7 - Debt in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated by reference. 46 4.50% Senior Notes We have $600 million aggregate principal amount of 4.50% senior unsecured notes due August 15, 2028 (the 4.50% Senior Notes ). The 4.50% Senior Notes are subject to certain provisions and covenants, as more fully described in Note 7 - Debt in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated by reference. 6.625% Senior Notes We have $300 million aggregate principal amount of 6.625% senior unsecured notes (the 6.625% Senior Notes ), which are composed of $225.1 million aggregate principal amount of 6.625% IEA senior notes (the 6.625% IEA Senior Notes ) and $74.9 million aggregate principal amount of 6.625% MasTec senior notes (the 6.625% MasTec Senior Notes ). The 6.625% IEA Senior Notes are structurally subordinated to all indebtedness and other liabilities, including trade payables, of the IEA Issuer subsidiaries and are effectively subordinated to any secured indebtedness of the IEA Issuer, to the extent of the value of the collateral securing such indebtedness. The 6.625% MasTec Senior Notes are general senior unsecured obligations of the Company, and rank equal in right of payment with all of the Company existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness and senior in right of payment to any of the Company future subordinated indebtedness. The 6.625% MasTec Senior Notes are effectively subordinated to all secured indebtedness of the Company to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness and are structurally subordinated to all obligations of the subsidiaries of the Company, including trade payables and the 6.625% IEA Senior Notes. The 6.625% Senior Notes are subject to certain provisions and covenants, as more fully described in Note 7 - Debt in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated by reference. 2022 Term Loan Facility We have $700.0 million of unsecured term loans that were entered into in connection with the acquisition of IEA, composed of a three-year term loan of $400.0 million in principal amount (the Three-Year Tranche ) maturing on October 7, 2025, and a five-year term loan of $300.0 million in principal amount (the Five-Year Tranche ) maturing on October 7, 2027 (together, the 2022 Term Loan Facility ). The obligations under the 2022 Term Loan Facility are unsecured and are not guaranteed by any of the Company or its subsidiaries. The 2022 Term Loan Facility is subject to certain provisions and covenants, as more fully described in Note 7 - Debt in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated by reference. Debt Covenants We were in compliance with the provisions and covenants contained in our outstanding debt instruments as of December 31, 2023. Additional Information For detailed discussion and additional information pertaining to our debt instruments, including current period balances and rates of interest, see Note 7 - Debt in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated by reference. Contractual Payment Obligations The following table sets forth our contractual payment obligations as of December 31, 2023 during the periods indicated below (in millions): Contractual Obligations Total Less than 1 Year 1 - 3 Years 3 - 5 Years More than 5 Years and Thereafter Senior credit facility $ 1,114.3 $ 8.8 $ 1,105.5 $ $ 4.50% Senior Notes 600.0 600.0 6.625% Senior Notes 284.2 284.2 2022 Term Loan Facility 700.0 15.0 445.0 240.0 Finance lease and other obligations 380.3 153.4 193.4 32.8 0.7 Operating lease liabilities 472.6 152.2 216.6 67.1 36.7 Earn-out and contingent payment obligations (a) 34.7 34.7 Interest (b) 615.7 191.6 314.5 97.9 11.7 Total $ 4,201.8 $ 555.7 $ 2,275.0 $ 1,037.8 $ 333.3 (a) Under certain acquisition agreements, we have agreed to pay the sellers earn-outs and other amounts based on the performance of the businesses acquired. Certain of these payments may be made either in cash or in MasTec common stock, or a combination thereof, at our option. Due to the contingent nature of these payments, we have only included obligations that we expect will be paid in cash and have been earned as of December 31, 2023. (b) Represents expected future interest payments on debt and finance lease obligations outstanding as of December 31, 2023, and does not include potential letter of credit or commitment fees associated with our senior unsecured credit facility. With the exception of our credit facilities and term loans, all of our debt instruments are fixed rate interest obligations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As is common in our industry, we have entered into certain off-balance sheet arrangements in the ordinary course of business. Our significant off-balance sheet transactions include liabilities associated with non-cancelable operating leases with durations of less than twelve months, letter of credit obligations, surety and performance and payment bonds entered into in the normal course of business, self-insurance 47 liabilities, liabilities associated with multiemployer pension plans, liabilities associated with potential funding obligations and indemnification and/or guarantee arrangements relating to our equity and other investment arrangements, including our variable interest entities. These off-balance sheet arrangements have not had, and are not reasonably likely to have, a material impact on our financial condition, revenue or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, cash requirements or capital resources in the next twelve months or in the foreseeable future. Refer to Note 14 - Commitments and Contingencies, Note 4 - Fair Value of Financial Instruments and Note 15 - Related Party Transactions in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements, which are incorporated by reference, for additional information related to our off-balance sheet arrangements. Impact of Inflation Over the past years, inflation, supply chain and labor constraints have had a significant impact on the global economy, including on the construction industry in the United States. We expect elevated market interest rates and continuing, but moderating, levels of cost inflation for the foreseeable future. The primary inflationary factors directly affecting our operations are labor, fuel and material costs. The current elevated levels of inflation have caused an increase in consumer prices and resulted in regulatory actions that have increased interest rates, while the labor market remains at historically low levels of unemployment, creating pressure on the supply of skilled labor. In times of low unemployment and/or high inflation, our labor costs may increase due to shortages in the supply of skilled labor and increases in compensation rates generally. Although most project materials are provided by our customers, increases in the cost of materials could negatively affect the economic viability of our customers projects, and accordingly, demand for our services. Material and commodity prices are subject to unexpected fluctuations due to events outside of our control, including fluctuations in global supply and demand, climate-related effects, and geopolitical events, such as military conflicts, including the political unrest and military conflicts in the Middle East and Ukraine, which events have caused market volatility and could create heightened global market volatility in the future. The recent elevated levels of labor, materials and fuel costs has negatively affected our project margins to the extent that we have been unable to pass such cost increases along to our customers. If the current inflationary conditions persist, our profitability could continue to be affected in the future. Market volatility and/or uncertainty can also affect our customers investment decisions and subject us to project cancellations, deferrals or unexpected changes in the timing of project work. Market prices for goods can also be affected by supply chain disruptions, which have also recently affected our operations, as discussed in Item 1. Business, under Suppliers, Materials and Working Capital. Additionally, as discussed within Interest Rate Risk below, the current inflationary environment has resulted in an increase in market interest rates, which has increased the rates of interest on our variable rate debt and, correspondingly, our interest expense. We closely monitor inflationary factors, including current rates of inflation and any potential effects they may have on our business operations, operating results and/or financial condition. While the impact of these factors cannot be fully eliminated, we proactively work to mitigate their effects; however, inflationary pressures and interest rate increases could adversely affect our business operations in the future. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 - Business, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated by reference. 
