Item 7 | Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
Glossary and Acronyms of Selected Insurance Terms and References
Throughout this Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”), we use certain terms and abbreviations, which are summarized in the Glossary and Acronyms.
Corebridge has incorporated into this discussion a number of cross-references to additional information included throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K to assist readers seeking additional information related to a particular subject.
In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, unless otherwise mentioned or unless the context indicates otherwise, we use the terms “Corebridge,” “we,” “us” and “our” to refer to Corebridge Financial, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries. We use the term “Corebridge Parent” to refer solely to Corebridge Financial, Inc., and not to any of its consolidated subsidiaries.
This MD&A addresses the consolidated financial condition of Corebridge as of December 31, 2023, compared with December 31, 2022, and its consolidated results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021. In addition to historical data, this discussion contains forward-looking statements about our business operations and financial performance based on current expectations that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Actual results may differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors. You should read the following analysis of our consolidated financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition,” the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and the “Risk Factors” section and the statements under “Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information,” included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 73
TABLE OF CONTENTS

Index to Item 7
Page
Executive Summary	
75
Overview
75
Revenues	
75
Benefits and Expenses	
75
Significant Factors Impacting our Results	
76
Corebridge’s Outlook - Macroeconomic, Industry and Regulatory Trends	
82
Use of Non-GAAP Measures	
85
Key Operating Metrics	
91
Consolidated Results of Operations	
94
Business Segment Operations	
96
Individual Retirement	
98
Group Retirement	
102
Life Insurance	
105
Institutional Markets	
107
Corporate and Other	
109
Investments	
111
Overview	
111
Key Investment Strategies	
111
Credit Ratings	
114
Future Policy Benefits, Policyholder Contract Deposits and Market Risk Benefits	
130
Liquidity and Capital Resources	
133
Overview	
133
Liquidity and Capital Resources of Corebridge Parent and Intermediate Holding Companies	
133
Liquidity and Capital Resources of Corebridge insurance subsidiaries	
134
Contractual Obligations	
137
Short-Term and Long-Term Debt	
138
Credit Ratings	
139
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Commercial Commitments	
140
Accounting Policies and Pronouncements	
141
Critical Accounting Estimates	
141
Adoption of Accounting Pronouncements	
148
Glossary	
149
Certain Important Terms	
151
Acronyms	
153
 
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 74
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Executive Summary
 Executive Summary
OVERVIEW
We are one of the largest providers of retirement solutions and insurance products in the United States, committed to helping individuals plan, save for and achieve secure financial futures. We offer a broad set of products and services through our market leading Individual Retirement, Group Retirement, Life Insurance and Institutional Markets businesses, each of which features capabilities and industry experience we believe are difficult to replicate. These four businesses collectively seek to enhance stockholder returns while maintaining our attractive risk profile, which has historically resulted in consistent and strong cash flow generation.
REVENUES
Our revenues come from five principal sources:
•Premiums are principally derived from our traditional life insurance and certain annuity products including PRT transactions and structured settlements with life contingencies. Our premium income is driven by growth in new policies and contracts written and persistency of our in-force policies, both of which are influenced by a combination of factors including our efforts to attract and retain customers and market conditions that influence demand for our products;
•Policy fees are principally derived from our individual retirement, group retirement, universal life insurance, Corporate Markets and SVW products. Our policy fees typically vary directly with the underlying account value or benefit base of our annuities. Account value and benefit base are influenced by changes in economic conditions, including changes in levels of equity prices, and changes in levels of interest rates and credit spreads, as well as net flows;
•Net investment income from our investment portfolio varies as a result of the yield, allocation and size of our investment portfolio, which are, in turn, a function of capital market conditions and net flows into our total investments, as well as the expenses associated with managing our investment portfolio;
•Net realized gains (losses), net include changes in the Fortitude Re funds withheld embedded derivative, risk management related derivative activities (excluding hedges of certain MRBs), changes in the fair value of embedded derivatives in certain of our insurance products and trading activity within our investment portfolio, including trading activity related to the Fortitude Re modco arrangement. Net realized gains (losses) vary due to the timing of sales of investments as well as changes in the fair value of embedded derivatives in certain of our insurance products and derivatives utilized to hedge certain embedded derivatives; and
•Advisory fee income and other income includes fees from registered investment advisory services, 12b-1 fees (marketing and distribution fees paid by mutual funds), other asset management fee income, and commission-based broker-dealer services.
BENEFITS AND EXPENSES
Our benefits and expenses come from six principal sources:
•Policyholder benefits are driven primarily by customer withdrawals and surrenders from traditional products which change in response to changes in capital market conditions and changes in policy reserves, as well as life contingent benefit payments on life and annuity contracts and updates to assumptions related to future policyholder behavior, mortality and longevity;
•Interest credited to policyholder account balances varies in relation to the amount of the underlying account value or benefit base and also includes changes in the fair value of certain embedded derivatives related to our insurance products and amortization of deferred sales inducement assets;
•Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs (“DAC”) and value of business acquired (“VOBA”) for all contracts except for other investment contracts is amortized, on a constant level basis over the expected term of the related contracts, using assumptions consistent with those used in estimating the related liability for future policy benefits, or any other related balances, for those corresponding contracts, as applicable. VOBA is determined at the time of acquisition and is reported with DAC. This value is based on the present value of future pre-tax profits discounted at yields applicable at the time of purchase;
•General operating and other expenses include expenses associated with conducting our business, including salaries, other employee-related compensation and other operating expenses such as professional services or travel;
•Change in the fair value of market risk benefits, net represents the changes in fair value of MRBs contained within certain insurance contracts (excluding the impact of changes in our own credit risk), including attributed fees, along with the changes in the fair value of derivatives that economically hedge MRBs. Changes in our own credit risk are included in OCI; and
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 75
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Executive Summary
•Interest expense represents the charges associated with our external debt obligations, including debt of consolidated investment entities. This expense varies based on the amount of debt on our balance sheet, as well as the rates of interest associated with those obligations. Interest expense related to consolidated investment entities principally relates to variable interest entities (“VIEs”) for which we are the primary beneficiary; however, creditors or beneficial interest holders of VIEs generally only have recourse to the assets and cash flows of the VIEs and do not have recourse to us except in limited circumstances when we have provided a guarantee to the VIE’s interest holders.
SIGNIFICANT FACTORS IMPACTING OUR RESULTS
The following significant factors have impacted, and may in the future impact, our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
Impact of Fortitude Re
In 2018, AIG established Fortitude Re, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Fortitude Group Holdings, LLC (“Fortitude Holdings”), in a series of reinsurance transactions related to certain of AIG’s legacy operations. In February 2018, AGL, VALIC and USL entered into modco agreements with Fortitude Re, a registered Class 4 and Class E reinsurer in Bermuda.
In the modco arrangement, the investments supporting the reinsurance agreements, which reflect the majority of the consideration that would be paid to the reinsurer for entering into the transaction, are withheld by, and therefore continue to reside on the balance sheet of, the ceding company (i.e., AGL, VALIC and USL) thereby creating an obligation for the ceding company to pay the reinsurer (i.e., Fortitude Re) at a later date. Additionally, since we maintain ownership of these investments, we reflect our existing accounting for these assets, which consist primarily of available-for-sale securities (e.g., the changes in fair value of available-for-sale securities are recognized within OCI) on our balance sheet. We have established a funds withheld payable to Fortitude Re while simultaneously establishing a reinsurance asset representing liabilities for the insurance coverage that Fortitude Re has assumed. The funds withheld payable contains an embedded derivative and changes in fair value of this derivative are recognized in Net realized gains (losses) on Fortitude Re funds withheld embedded derivative. This embedded derivative is considered a total return swap with contractual returns that are attributable to various assets, primarily available-for-sale securities, associated with these reinsurance agreements. As the majority of the invested assets supporting the modco are fixed income securities that are available-for-sale, there is a mismatch between the accounting for the embedded derivative as its changes in fair value are recorded through net income while changes in the fair value of the fixed maturity securities available-for-sale are recorded through OCI.
Following the sale of AIG’s majority ownership interest in Fortitude Holdings and a restructuring transaction involving Fortitude Holdings and Fortitude Re Bermuda, AIG retained a 3.5% ownership interest in Fortitude Re Bermuda and one seat on its Board of Managers. On October 1, 2021, AIG, Inc. contributed its remaining 3.5% ownership interest in Fortitude Re Bermuda to us. At March 31, 2022, our ownership interest in Fortitude Re Bermuda was reduced from 3.5% to 2.46% due to a round of equity financing by third-party investors, in which we did not participate, that closed on March 31, 2022. As of December 31, 2023, $30.6 billion of reserves related to business written by multiple wholly-owned AIG subsidiaries, including $26.8 billion of reserves related to Corebridge, had been ceded to Fortitude Re.
Our net income experiences ongoing volatility as a result of the reinsurance agreements, which, as described above, give rise to a funds withheld payable that contains an embedded derivative. However, this net income volatility is almost entirely offset with a corresponding change in OCI, which reflects the fair value change from the investment portfolio supporting the funds withheld payable, which is primarily available-for-sale securities, resulting in minimal impact to our comprehensive income (loss) and equity attributable to Corebridge. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2021, the Company elected the fair value option on the acquisition of certain new fixed maturity securities, helping reduce the mismatch over time.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 76
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Executive Summary
Fortitude Re funds withheld impact:
Years Ended December 31,
(in millions)	2023		2022		2021
Net investment income - Fortitude Re funds withheld assets	$	1,368 			$	891 			$	1,775 	
Net realized gains (losses) on Fortitude Re funds withheld assets:					
Net realized gains (losses) on Fortitude Re funds withheld assets	(224)			(397)			924 	
Net realized gains (losses) on Fortitude Re funds withheld embedded derivatives	(1,734)			6,347 			(687)	
Net realized gains (losses) on Fortitude Re funds withheld assets	(1,958)			5,950 			237 	
Income (loss) before income tax expense (benefit)	(590)			6,841 			2,012 	
Income tax expense (benefit)*	(124)			1,437 			423 	
Net income (loss)	(466)			5,404 			1,589 	
Change in unrealized appreciation (depreciation) of the invested assets supporting the Fortitude Re modco arrangement classified as available-for-sale*	491 			(5,064)			(1,488)	
Comprehensive income	$	25 			$	340 			$	101 	
 
* The income tax expense (benefit) and the tax impact in OCI was computed using the U.S. statutory tax rate of 21%.
Various assets supporting the Fortitude Re funds withheld arrangements are reported at amortized cost, and as such, changes in the fair value of these assets are not reflected in the financial statements. However, changes in the fair value of these assets are included in the embedded derivative in the Fortitude Re funds withheld arrangement and the appreciation (depreciation) of the assets is the primary driver of the Comprehensive income (loss) reflected above.
For further details on this transaction, see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Impact of Variable Annuity Guaranteed Benefit Riders and Hedging
For information regarding Corebridge’s impact of Variable Annuity Guaranteed Benefit Riders and Hedging for the year ended December 31, 2021 recast to reflect the adoption of LTDI, see Exhibit 99.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on June 5, 2023
Our Individual Retirement and Group Retirement businesses offer variable annuity products with riders that provide guaranteed benefits. The liabilities are accounted for as MRBs and measured at fair value. The fair value of the MRBs may fluctuate significantly based on market interest rates, equity prices, credit spreads, market volatility, policyholder behavior and other factors.
In addition to risk-mitigating features in our variable annuity product design, we have an economic hedging program designed to manage market risk from GMWBs, including exposures to changes in interest rates, equity prices, credit spreads and volatility. The hedging program includes all in-force GMWB policies and utilizes derivative instruments, including, but not limited to, equity options, futures contracts and interest rate swap and option contracts, as well as fixed maturity securities.
Differences in Valuation of MRBs and Economic Hedge Target
Our variable annuity hedging program utilizes an economic hedge target, which represents an estimate of the underlying economic risks in our GMWB riders. The economic hedge target differs from the GAAP valuation of the MRBs, creating volatility in our net income (loss) primarily due to the following:
•the MRBs include both the GMWB riders and the GMDB riders while the hedge program is targeting the economic risks of just the GMWB rider;
•the hedge program is designed to offset moves in the GMWB economic liability and therefore has a lower sensitivity to equity market changes than the MRBs;
•the economic hedge target includes 100% of the GMWB rider fees in present value calculations;
•the GAAP valuation reflects those fees attributed to the MRBs such that the initial value at contract issue equals zero. Since the MRB includes GMWBs and GMDBs, these attributed fees are typically larger than just the GMWB rider fees;
•the economic hedge target uses best estimate actuarial assumptions and excludes explicit risk margins used for GAAP valuation, such as margins for policyholder behavior, mortality and volatility; and
•the economic hedge target excludes our own credit risk changes (non-performance risk adjustments (“NPA”)) used in the GAAP valuation, which are recognized in OCI. The GAAP valuation has different sensitivities to movements in interest rates and other market factors, and to changes from actuarial assumption updates, than the economic hedge target.
For more information on our valuation methodology for MRBs, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 77
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Executive Summary
The market value of the hedge portfolio compared to the economic hedge target at any point in time may be different and is not expected to be fully offsetting. In addition to the derivatives held in conjunction with the variable annuity hedging program, we generally have cash and invested assets available to cover future claims payable under these guarantees. The primary sources of difference between the change in the fair value of the hedging portfolio and the economic hedge target include:
•basis risk due to the variance between expected and actual fund returns, which may be either positive or negative;
•realized volatility versus implied volatility;
•actual versus expected changes in the hedge target driven by assumptions not subject to hedging, particularly policyholder behavior; and
•risk exposures that we have elected not to explicitly or fully hedge.
The following table presents the impact on pre-tax income (loss) and Other comprehensive income (loss) of Variable Annuity MRBs and Hedging for the Individual Retirement and Group Retirement Segments:
Year Ended December 31, 2023		Year Ended December 31, 2022		Year Ended December 31, 2021
(in millions)	
MRB Liability(*)
Hedge Assets		Net		
MRB Liability(*)
Hedge Assets		Net		
MRB Liability(*)
Hedge Assets		Net
Issuances	$	(1)			$	— 			$	(1)			$	(11)			$	— 			$	(11)			$	(21)			$	— 			$	(21)	
Interest accrual	(43)			(243)			(286)			(79)			(283)			(362)			(70)			(235)			(305)	
Attributed fees	(866)			— 			(866)			(934)			— 			(934)			(880)			— 			(880)	
Expected claims	93 			— 			93 			84 			— 			84 			55 			— 			55 	
Effect of changes in interest rates	121 			5 			126 			3,328 			(2,746)			582 			946 			(868)			78 	
Effect of changes in interest rate volatility	76 			(46)			30 			(288)			140 			(148)			(80)			29 			(51)	
Effect of changes in equity markets	1,329 			(832)			497 			(1,499)			1,030 			(469)			1,617 			(942)			675 	
Effect of changes in equity index volatility	19 			25 			44 			76 			(32)			44 			(56)			53 			(3)	
Actual outcome different from model expected outcome	(181)			— 			(181)			(203)			— 			(203)			(147)			— 			(147)	
Effect of changes in future expected policyholder behavior	— 			— 			— 			87 			— 			87 			(53)			— 			(53)	
Effect of changes in other future expected assumptions	115 			— 			115 			16 			— 			16 			36 			— 			36 	
Foreign exchange impact	1 			— 			1 			7 			— 			7 			6 			— 			6 	
Total impact on balance before other and changes in our own credit risk
663 			(1,091)			(428)			584 			(1,891)			(1,307)			1,353 			(1,963)			(610)	
Other	(2)			(43)			(45)			— 			66 			66 			1 			8 			9 	
Effect of changes in our own credit risk	(347)			49 			(298)			1,206 			(56)			1,150 			275 			73 			348 	
Total income (loss) impact on market risk benefits	314 			(1,085)			(771)			1,790 			(1,881)			(91)			1,629 			(1,882)			(253)	
Less: impact on OCI	(347)			59 			(288)			1,206 			(527)			679 			275 			(122)			153 	
Add: fees net of claims and ceded premiums and benefits	761 			— 			761 			847 			— 			847 			851 			— 			851 	
Net impact on pre-tax income (loss)	$	1,422 			$	(1,144)			$	278 			$	1,431 			$	(1,354)			$	77 			$	2,205 			$	(1,760)			$	445 	
Net change in value of economic hedge target and related hedges																	
Net impact on economic gains (losses)					$	(512)							$	714 							$	109 	
 
* MRB Liability is partially offset by MRB Assets.
Year Ended December 31, 2023
•Net impact on pre-tax income of $278 million was primarily driven by increases in equity markets and the impact of the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) to Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”) transition.
•With the transition of risk free rates to the SOFR curve, our discounting of fees has been reduced, resulting in a one-time favorable impact to the MRB liability.
On an economic basis, the changes in the fair value of the hedge portfolio were partially offset by the changes in the economic hedge target. In the year ended December 31, 2023, we had a net mark-to-market loss of approximately $512 million from our hedging activities related to our economic hedge target primarily driven by aging of the business and tightening credit spreads.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 78
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Executive Summary
Year Ended December 31, 2022
•Net impact on pre-tax income of $77 million was primarily driven by fund basis changes that impacted our actual to expected model outcomes, lower equity markets and term structure moves in the interest rate volatility market, partially offset by increases in interest rates.
On an economic basis, the changes in the fair value of the hedge portfolio were partially offset by the changes in the economic hedge target. In the year ended December 31, 2022, we had a net mark-to-market gain of approximately $714 million from our hedging activities related to our economic hedge target primarily driven by widening credit spreads and an update to actuarial assumptions.
Embedded Derivatives for Fixed Index Annuity and Index Universal Life Products
Fixed index annuity contracts contain index interest credits which are accounted for as embedded derivatives and our index universal life insurance products also contain embedded derivatives. Policyholders may elect to rebalance among the various accounts within the product at specified renewal dates. At the end of each index term, we generally have the opportunity to re-price the index component by establishing different participation rates or caps on index credited rates. The index crediting feature of these products results in the recognition of an embedded derivative that is required to be bifurcated from the host contract and carried at fair value with changes in the fair value of the liabilities recorded in Net realized gains (losses). Option pricing models are used to estimate fair value, taking into account assumptions for future index growth rates, volatility of the index, future interest rates and our ability to adjust the participation rate and the cap on index credited rates in light of market conditions and policyholder behavior assumptions.
The following table summarizes the fair values of the embedded derivatives for fixed index annuity and index universal life products:
(in millions)		December 31, 2023		December 31, 2022
Fixed index annuities		$	6,953 			$	4,657 	
Index universal life		$	989 			$	710 	
 
Our Strategic Partnership with Blackstone
In 2021, we entered into a strategic partnership with Blackstone pursuant to which Blackstone acquired a 9.9% position in our common stock and we entered into a long-term asset management relationship with Blackstone IM. Blackstone IM initially managed $50 billion of our existing investment portfolio, with that amount to increase to an aggregate of $92.5 billion by the third quarter of 2027.
The investments underlying the original $50 billion mandate with Blackstone IM began to run-off in 2022 and will be reinvested over time. As these assets run-off, we expect Blackstone to reinvest primarily in Blackstone-originated investments across a range of asset classes, including private and structured credit, and commercial and residential real estate securitized and whole loans. Blackstone’s preferred credit and lending strategy is to seek to control all significant components of the underwriting and pricing processes with the goal of facilitating bespoke opportunities with historically strong credit protection and attractive risk-adjusted returns. Blackstone seeks to capture enhanced economics to those available in the traditional fixed income markets by going directly to the borrowers.
We believe that Blackstone’s ability to originate attractive and privately sourced, fixed-income oriented assets, will be accretive to our businesses and provide us with an enhanced competitive advantage as we have been able to expand our investment capabilities, access new asset classes and improve our investment yields. We continue to manage asset allocation and portfolio-level risk management decisions with respect to any assets managed by Blackstone, ensuring that we maintain a consistent level of oversight across our entire investment portfolio considering our asset-liability matching needs, risk appetite and capital position.
As of December 31, 2023, Blackstone managed approximately $55.4 billion in book value of assets in our investment portfolio.
Our Investment Management Agreements with BlackRock
Since April 2022, we entered into investment management agreements with BlackRock and its investment advisory affiliates. As of December 31, 2023, BlackRock managed approximately $85.3 billion in book value of assets in our investment portfolio, consisting of liquid fixed income and certain private placement assets. In addition, liquid fixed income assets associated with the Fortitude Re portfolio were separately transferred to BlackRock for management. The investment management agreements with BlackRock provide us with access to market-leading capabilities, including portfolio management, research and tactical strategies in addition to a larger pool of investment professionals. We believe BlackRock’s scale and fee structure make BlackRock an excellent outsourcing partner for certain asset classes and will allow us to further optimize our investment management operating model while improving overall performance.
See “Business—Investment Management—Our Investment Management Agreements with BlackRock.”
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 79
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Executive Summary
Actuarial Assumption Changes
Most of the fixed annuities, fixed index annuities, variable annuity products and universal life insurance products we offer maintain policyholder deposits that are reported as liabilities and classified within either separate account liabilities or policyholder contract deposits. Our products and riders also impact liabilities for future policyholder benefits and unearned revenues and assets for DAC and DSI. The valuation of these assets and liabilities (other than deposits) is based on differing accounting methods depending on the product, each of which requires numerous assumptions and considerable judgment. The accounting guidance applied in the valuation of these assets and liabilities includes, but is not limited to, the following: (i) traditional life and limited pay insurance products for which actual experience is reflected in the liability and assumptions are reviewed and updated at least annually, if necessary, with the recognition and parenthetical presentation of any resulting re-measurement gain or loss in policyholder benefits (except for discount rate changes) in the income statement; (ii) certain product guarantees for which benefit liabilities are accrued over the life of the contract in proportion to actual and future expected policy assessments; (iii) certain product guarantees reported as market risk benefits or index crediting features accounted for as embedded derivatives which are carried at fair value; and (iv) unearned revenue and assets for DAC, VOBA and DSI which are amortized on a constant level basis over the expected term of the related contracts using assumptions consistent with those used in estimating the related liability for future policy benefits, or any other related balances, for those corresponding contracts, as applicable.
At least annually, typically in the third quarter, we conduct a comprehensive review of the underlying assumptions within our actuarially determined assets and liabilities. These assumptions include, but are not limited to, policyholder behavior, mortality, expenses, investment returns and policy crediting rates. Changes in assumptions can result in a significant change to the carrying value of product liabilities and assets and, consequently, the impact could be material to earnings in the period of the change.
For further details of our accounting policies and related judgments pertaining to assumption updates, see “Future Policy Benefits, Policyholder Contract Deposits and Market Risk Benefits—Significant Reinsurance Agreements, Variable Annuity Guaranteed Benefits and Hedging Results and Actuarial Updates—Update of Actuarial Assumptions and Models” and “Accounting Policies and Pronouncements—Critical Accounting Estimates—Market Risk Benefits, Valuation of Embedded Derivatives for Fixed Index Annuity and Index Universal Life Products, Guaranteed Benefit Features of Variable Annuity, Fixed Annuity and Fixed Index Annuity Products, and Future Policy Benefits for Life, Accident and Health Insurance Contracts.”
The following table presents the increase in adjusted pre-tax operating income and pre-tax income resulting from the annual update of actuarial assumptions, which occurs in the third quarter of each year, by financial statement line item as reported in the Consolidated Statements of Income (Loss):
Years Ended December 31,
(in millions)	2023		2022		2021
Premiums	$	— 			$	— 			$	(41)	
Policyholder benefits	22		29		89 	
Increase in adjusted pre-tax operating income	22		29		48 	
Change in fair value of market risk benefits, net	7		105		(17)	
Net realized gains losses	(7)		(2)		— 	
Increase in pre-tax income	$	22 			$	132 			$	31 	
 
The following table presents the increase in adjusted pre-tax operating income resulting from the annual update in actuarial assumptions, which occurs in the third quarter of each year, by segment and product line:
Years Ended December 31,
(in millions)	2023		2022		2021
Individual Retirement	$	1 			$	— 			$	— 	
Life Insurance	19 			25 			48 	
Institutional Markets	2 			4 			— 	
Total increase in adjusted pre-tax operating income from update of assumptions*	$	22 			$	29 			$	48 	
 
*    Liabilities ceded to Fortitude Re are reported in Corporate and Other. There is no impact to adjusted pre-tax operating income due to the annual update of actuarial assumptions as these liabilities are 100% ceded.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 80
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Executive Summary
Adoption of Targeted Improvements to the Accounting for Long-Duration Contracts
In August 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued an accounting standard update with the objective of making targeted improvements to the existing recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure requirements for long-duration contracts issued by an insurance entity.
The Company adopted targeted improvements to the accounting for long duration contracts (the “standard” or “LDTI”) on January 1, 2023, with a transition date of January 1, 2021 (as described in additional detail below).
The Company adopted the standard using the modified retrospective transition method relating to liabilities for traditional and limited payment contracts and DAC. The Company also adopted the standard in relation to MRBs on a full retrospective basis. As of the January 1, 2021 transition date, the impact of the adoption of the standard was a net decrease to beginning AOCI of $2.3 billion and a net increase to beginning Shareholders’ net investment of $1.2 billion.
The net increase in Shareholders’ net investment resulted from:
•the reclassification of the cumulative effect of non-performance adjustments related to our products in Individual Retirement and Group Retirement operating segments that are currently measured at fair value (e.g., living benefit guarantees associated with variable annuities),
Partially offset by:
•a reduction from the difference between the fair value and carrying value of benefits not previously measured at fair value (e.g., death benefit guarantees associated with variable annuities).
The net decrease in AOCI resulted from:
•the reclassification of the cumulative effect of non-performance adjustments discussed above,
•changes to the discount rate which will most significantly impact our Life Insurance and Institutional Markets segments,
Partially offset by:
•the removal of DAC, unearned revenue reserves, sales inducement assets and certain future policyholder benefit balances recorded in AOCI related to changes in unrealized appreciation (depreciation) on investments.
Affordable Housing Sale
On December 15, 2021, Corebridge and Blackstone Real Estate Income Trust (“BREIT”), a long-term, perpetual capital vehicle affiliated with Blackstone, completed the acquisition by BREIT of Corebridge’s interests in a U.S. affordable housing portfolio for $4.9 billion, in an all cash transaction, resulting in a pre-tax gain of $3.0 billion. We recognized $186 million of APTOI related to the U.S. affordable housing portfolio, primarily consisting of net investment income of $309 million offset by interest expense of $107 million for the year ended December 31, 2021.
Fair Value Option Bond Securities
We elect the fair value option on certain bond securities. When the fair value option is elected, the realized and unrealized gains and losses on these securities are reported in net investment income.
The following table shows the net investment income reported on fair value option bond securities:
Years Ended December 31,
(in millions)		2023		2022		2021
Net investment income - excluding Fortitude Re funds withheld assets		$	49 			$	(30)			$	17 	
Net investment income - Fortitude Re funds withheld assets		291 			(378)			9 	
Total		$	340 			$	(408)			$	26 	
 
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 81
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Executive Summary
Tax Impact from Separation
Following the IPO, AIG owns a less than 80% interest in Corebridge, resulting in tax deconsolidation of Corebridge Parent and its subsidiaries from the AIG Consolidated Tax Group. Upon the tax deconsolidation from the AIG Consolidated Tax Group, after assessing the relative weight of all positive and negative evidence, we concluded that absent any prudent and feasible tax planning strategies, our net operating losses and foreign tax credit carryforwards generated by the non-life insurance companies would more likely than not expire unutilized and at the time of tax deconsolidation a valuation allowance related to the tax attribute carryforwards and other deferred tax assets for the Non-Life Group was necessary. In addition, under applicable law, the AGC Group will not be permitted to join in the filing of a U.S. consolidated federal income tax return with the Non-Life Group for the five-year waiting period. Instead, the AGC Group is expected to file separately as members of the AGC consolidated U.S. federal income tax return during the five-year waiting period. Following the five-year waiting period, the AGC Group is expected to join the U.S. consolidated federal income tax return in 2028. Principles similar to the foregoing may apply to state and local income tax liabilities in jurisdictions that conform to federal rules. We continue to assess our need for a valuation allowance and as of year ended December 31, 2023, the balance sheet reflects a valuation allowance of $162 million related to our tax attribute carryforwards and a portion of certain other deferred tax assets that are no longer more-likely-than-not to be realized.
For further discussion on tax impacts from the IPO and valuation allowance, see Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Sale of Certain Assets of Our Retail Mutual Funds Business
On February 8, 2021, we announced the execution of a definitive agreement with Touchstone Investments, Inc. (“Touchstone”), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Western & Southern Financial Group, to sell certain assets of our retail mutual funds business. This sale consisted of the reorganization of twelve of the retail mutual funds managed by our subsidiary SunAmerica Asset Management LLC (“SAAMCo”) into certain Touchstone funds and was subject to certain conditions, including approval of the fund reorganizations by the retail mutual fund boards of directors/trustees and fund shareholders. The transaction closed on July 16, 2021, at which time we received initial proceeds and recognized a gain on the sale of $103 million. Concurrently, the twelve retail mutual funds managed by SAAMCo, with $6.8 billion in assets, were reorganized into Touchstone funds. Additional consideration has been and may be earned over a three-year period based on asset levels in certain reorganized funds. Six retail mutual funds managed by SAAMCo and not included in the transaction were liquidated. We continue to retain our fund management platform and capabilities dedicated to our variable annuity insurance products.
Separation Costs
In connection with our separation from AIG, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur one-time and recurring expenses. We estimate that our one-time expenses will be between approximately $350 million and $450 million on a pre-tax basis from January 1, 2022. As of December 31, 2023, we have incurred approximately $425 million of one-time expenses on a pre-tax basis. These expenses primarily relate to replicating and replacing functions, systems and infrastructure provided by AIG; rebranding; and accounting advisory, consulting and actuarial fees. We expect to incur the majority of these costs by December 31, 2023. In addition to these separation costs, we expect to incur costs related to the evolution of our investments organization to reflect our strategic partnerships with key external managers, our implementation of BlackRock’s “Aladdin” investment management technology platform and our expected reduction in fees for asset management services.
In addition, as part of Corebridge Forward, we aim to achieve an annual run rate expense reduction of approximately $400 million on a pre-tax basis and expect the majority of the reduction to be achieved within 24 months of the IPO. Through December 31, 2023 we have acted upon or contracted approximately $351 million of exit run rate savings on a pre-tax basis. Corebridge Forward is expected to have a cumulative cost to achieve of approximately $300 million on a pre-tax basis. As of December 31, 2023, the cost to achieve has been approximately $168 million.
COREBRIDGE’S MACROECONOMIC, INDUSTRY AND REGULATORY TRENDS
Our business is affected by industry and economic factors such as interest rates; geopolitical stability (including the ongoing armed conflicts between Ukraine and Russia and in the Middle East); credit and equity market conditions; currency exchange rates; regulation; tax policy; competition; and general economic, market and political conditions. We continued to operate under challenging market conditions in 2023 and 2022 characterized by factors such as the impact of COVID-19 and the related governmental and societal responses, interest rate volatility, inflationary pressures, an uneven global economic recovery and global trade tensions. Responses by central banks and monetary authorities with respect to inflation, growth concerns and other macroeconomic factors have also affected global exchange rates and volatility.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 82
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Executive Summary
Below is a discussion of certain industry and economic factors impacting our business:
Demographics
We expect our target market of individuals planning for retirement to continue to grow with the size of the U.S. population age 65 and over that is expected to increase by approximately 30% by 2030 from 2020. In addition, we believe that reduced employer-paid retirement benefits will drive an increasing need for our individual retirement solutions. Further, consumers in the United States continue to prefer purchasing life insurance and retirement products through an agent or advisor, which positions us favorably given our broad distribution platform and in-house advisory capabilities. We continue to seek opportunities to develop new products and adapt our existing products to the growing needs of individuals to plan, save for and achieve secure financial futures.
Equity Markets
Our financial results are impacted by the performance of equity markets, which impacts the performance of our alternative investment portfolio, fee income, MRBs and embedded derivatives. For instance, in our variable annuity separate accounts, mutual fund assets and brokerage and advisory assets, we generally earn fee income based on the account value, which fluctuates with the equity markets as a significant amount of these assets are invested in equity funds. The impact of equity market returns, both increases and decreases, is reflected in our results due to the impact on the account value and the fair values of equity-exposed securities in our investment portfolio.
Our hedging costs could also be significantly impacted by changes in the level of equity markets as rebalancing and option costs are tied to the equity market volatility. These hedging costs are partially offset by our rider fees that are tied to the level of the VIX. As rebalancing and option costs increase or decrease, the rider fees will increase or decrease partially offsetting the hedging costs incurred.
See “Risk Factors—Risks Relating to Market Conditions—We are exposed to risk from equity market declines or volatility.”
Market and other economic factors may result in increased credit impairments, downgrades and losses across single or numerous asset classes due to lower collateral values or deteriorating cash flow and profitability by borrowers could lead to higher defaults on our investment portfolio, especially in geographic, industry or investment sectors where we have higher concentrations of exposure, such as real estate related borrowings. These factors can also cause widening of credit spreads which could reduce investment asset valuations, decrease fee income and increase statutory capital requirements, as well as reduce the availability of investments that are attractive from a risk-adjusted perspective.
See “Risk Factors—Risks Relating to Market Conditions—Our business is highly dependent on economic and capital market conditions.”
Alternative investments include private equity funds which are generally reported on a one-quarter lag. Accordingly, changes in valuations driven by equity market conditions during the fourth quarter of 2023 may impact the private equity investments in the alternative investments portfolio in the first quarter of 2024.
Impact of Changes in the Interest Rate Environment
A rising interest rate environment benefits our spread income as we reinvest cash flows from existing business at higher rates and should have a positive impact on sales of spread-based products resulting in an increase in our base net investment spreads.
As of December 31, 2023, increases in key rates have improved yields on new investments, which are now higher than the yield on maturities and redemptions that we are experiencing on our existing portfolios. Furthermore, the impact of interest rate increases is further reflected in our results as these rate increases have also reduced the value of fixed income assets that are held in the variable annuity separate accounts and brokerage and advisory assets, and accordingly, have adversely impacted the fees that are charged on these accounts. We actively manage our exposure to the interest rate environment through portfolio construction and asset-liability management, including spread management strategies for our investment-oriented products and economic hedging of interest rate risk from guarantee features in our variable annuities, but we may not be able to fully mitigate our interest rate risk by matching exposure of our assets relative to our liabilities.
Fluctuations in interest rates may result in changes to certain statutory reserve or capital requirements that are based on formulas or models that consider interest rates or prescribed interest rates, such as cash flow testing. Rising interest rates can have a mixed impact on statutory financials due to higher surrender activity, particularly for fixed annuities, offset by potentially lower reserves for other products under various statutory reserving frameworks.
Regulatory Environment
The insurance and financial services industries are generally subject to close regulatory scrutiny and supervision. Our operations are subject to regulation by a number of different types of domestic and international regulatory authorities, including securities, derivatives and investment advisory regulators. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation and supervision by the states and jurisdictions in which they do business.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 83
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Executive Summary
We expect that the domestic and international regulations applicable to us and our regulated entities will continue to evolve for the foreseeable future.
For information regarding our regulation and supervision by different regulatory authorities in the United States and abroad, see “Business—Regulation.”
Annuity Sales and Surrenders
The rising rate environment and our partnership with Blackstone have provided a strong tailwind for fixed and fixed index annuity sales, however, higher interest rates have also resulted in an increase in surrenders. Rising interest rates could continue to create the potential for increased sales but could also drive higher surrenders relative to what we have already experienced. Fixed annuities have surrender charge periods, generally in the three-to-seven-year range. Fixed index annuities have surrender charge periods, generally in the five-to-ten-year range, and within our Group Retirement segment, certain of our fixed investment options are subject to other withdrawal restrictions, which may help mitigate increased early surrenders in a rising rate environment. In addition, older contracts that have higher minimum interest rates and continue to be attractive to contract holders have driven better than expected persistency in fixed annuities, although the liabilities for such contracts have continued to decrease over time in amount and as a percentage of the total annuity portfolio. We closely monitor surrenders of fixed annuities as contracts with lower minimum interest rates come out of the surrender charge period.
Reinvestment and Spread Management
We actively monitor fixed income markets, including the level of interest rates, credit spreads and the shape of the yield curve. We also frequently review our interest rate assumptions and actively manage the crediting rates used for new and in-force business. Business strategies continue to evolve and we attempt to maintain profitability of the overall business in light of the interest rate environment. A rising interest rate environment results in improved yields on new investments and improves margins for our business while also making certain products, such as fixed annuities, more attractive to potential customers. However, the rising rate environment has resulted in lower values on general and separate account assets, mutual fund assets and brokerage and advisory assets that hold investments in fixed income assets.
For additional information on our investment and asset-liability management strategies, see “Investments.”
For investment-oriented products, including universal life insurance, and variable, fixed and fixed index annuities, in each of our operating and reportable segments, our spread management strategies include disciplined pricing and product design for new business, modifying or limiting the sale of products that do not achieve targeted spreads, using asset-liability management to match assets to liabilities to the extent practicable and actively managing crediting rates to help mitigate some of the pressure on investment spreads. Renewal crediting rate management is guided by specific contract provisions designed to allow crediting rates to be reset at pre-established intervals and subject to minimum crediting rate guarantees. We expect to continue to adjust crediting rates on in-force business, as appropriate, to be responsive to changing rate environments. As interest rates rise, we may need to raise crediting rates on in-force business for competitive and other reasons, potentially offsetting a portion of the additional investment income resulting from investing in a higher interest rate environment.
Of the aggregate fixed account values of our Individual Retirement and Group Retirement annuity products, 54% and 64% were crediting at the contractual minimum guaranteed interest rate at December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively. The percentages of fixed account values of our annuity products that are currently crediting at rates above 1% were 50% and 55% at December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively. In the universal life insurance products in our Life Insurance business, 59% and 62% of the account values were crediting at the contractual minimum guaranteed interest rate at December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively. These businesses continue to focus on pricing discipline and strategies to manage the minimum guaranteed interest crediting rates offered on new sales in the context of regulatory requirements and competitive positioning.
For additional information on our investment and asset-liability management strategies, see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Impact of Currency Volatility
In our life insurance business, we have an international location in the UK, whose local currency is the British pound. Trends in revenue and expense reported in U.S. dollars can differ significantly from those measured in original currencies. While currency volatility affects financial statement line item components of income and expenses, since our international businesses transact in local currencies, the impact is significantly mitigated. These currencies may continue to fluctuate, in either direction, and such fluctuations may affect premiums, fees and expenses reported in U.S. dollars, as well as financial statement line item comparability.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 84
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Key Operating Metrics
 Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Key Operating Metrics
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
Throughout this MD&A, we present our financial condition and results of operations in the way we believe will be most meaningful and representative of our business results. Some of the measurements we use are “non-GAAP financial measures” under SEC rules and regulations. We believe presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures allows for a deeper understanding of the profitability drivers of our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. These measures should be considered supplementary to our results of operations and financial condition that are presented in accordance with GAAP and should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP measures. The non-GAAP financial measures we present may not be comparable to similarly named measures reported by other companies. Reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures for future periods are not provided as we do not currently have sufficient data to accurately estimate the variables and individual adjustments for such reconciliations.
Adjusted revenues exclude Net realized gains (losses) except for gains (losses) related to the disposition of real estate investments, income from non-operating litigation settlements (included in Other income for GAAP purposes) and changes in fair value of securities used to hedge guaranteed living benefits (included in Net investment income for GAAP purposes).
The following table presents a reconciliation of Total revenues to Adjusted revenues:
Years Ended December 31,
(in millions)		2023		2022		2021
Total revenues		$	18,878 			$	24,697 			$	23,257 	
Fortitude Re related items:						
Net investment income on Fortitude Re funds withheld assets		(1,368)			(891)			(1,775)	
Net realized (gains) losses on Fortitude Re funds withheld assets		224 			397 			(924)	
Net realized (gains) losses on Fortitude Re funds withheld embedded derivatives		1,734 			(6,347)			687 	
Subtotal - Fortitude Re related items		590 			(6,841)			(2,012)	
Other non-Fortitude Re reconciling items:						
Changes in fair value of securities used to hedge guaranteed living benefits		(55)			(56)			(60)	
Non-operating litigation reserves and settlements		— 			(25)			— 	
Other (income) - net		(28)			(51)			(37)	
Net realized (gains) losses*		1,827 			231 			(687)	
Subtotal - Other non-Fortitude Re reconciling items		1,744 			99 			(784)	
Total adjustments		2,334 			(6,742)			(2,796)	
Adjusted revenues		$	21,212 			$	17,955 			$	20,461 	
 
* Represents all Net realized gains and losses except gains (losses) related to the disposition of real estate investments and earned income (periodic settlements and changes in settlement accruals) on derivative instruments used for non-qualifying (economic) hedging or for asset replication. Earned income for non-qualifying (economic) hedging or for asset replication is reclassified from Net realized gains and losses to specific APTOI line items (e.g., net investment income and interest credited to policyholder account balances) based on the economic risk being hedged.
Adjusted pre-tax operating income (“APTOI”) is derived by excluding the items set forth below from income from operations before income tax. These items generally fall into one or more of the following broad categories: legacy matters having no relevance to our current businesses or operating performance; adjustments to enhance transparency to the underlying economics of transactions; and recording adjustments to APTOI that we believe to be common in our industry. We believe the adjustments to pre-tax income are useful for gaining an understanding of our overall results of operations.
APTOI excludes the impact of the following items:
FORTITUDE RE RELATED ADJUSTMENTS:
The modco reinsurance agreements with Fortitude Re transfer the economics of the invested assets supporting the reinsurance agreements to Fortitude Re. Accordingly, the net investment income on Fortitude Re funds withheld assets and the net realized gains (losses) on Fortitude Re funds withheld assets are excluded from APTOI. Similarly, changes in the Fortitude Re funds withheld embedded derivative are also excluded from APTOI.
The ongoing results associated with the reinsurance agreement with Fortitude Re have been excluded from APTOI as these are not indicative of our ongoing business operations.
INVESTMENT RELATED ADJUSTMENTS:
APTOI excludes “Net realized gains (losses)”, except for gains (losses) related to the disposition of real estate investments. Net realized gains (losses), except for gains (losses) related to the disposition of real estate investments, are excluded as the timing of sales on invested assets or changes in allowances depend largely on market credit cycles and can vary considerably across periods.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 85
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Key Operating Metrics
In addition, changes in interest rates may create opportunistic scenarios to buy or sell invested assets. Our derivative results, including those used to economically hedge insurance liabilities or are recognized as embedded derivatives at fair value are also included in Net realized gains (losses) and are similarly excluded from APTOI except earned income (periodic settlements and changes in settlement accruals) on derivative instruments used for non-qualifying (economic) hedges or for asset replication. Earned income on such economic hedges is reclassified from Net realized gains and losses to specific APTOI line items based on the economic risk being hedged (e.g., Net investment income and Interest credited to policyholder account balances).
MARKET RISK BENEFIT ADJUSTMENTS:
Certain of our variable annuity, fixed annuity and fixed index annuity contracts contain GMWBs and/or GMDBs which are accounted for as MRBs. Changes in the fair value of these MRBs (excluding changes related to our own credit risk), including certain rider fees attributed to the MRBs, along with changes in the fair value of derivatives used to hedge MRBs are recorded through “Change in the fair value of MRBs, net” and are excluded from APTOI.
Changes in the fair value of securities used to economically hedge MRBs are excluded from APTOI.
OTHER ADJUSTMENTS:
Other adjustments represent all other adjustments that are excluded from APTOI and includes the net pre-tax operating income (losses) from noncontrolling interests related to consolidated investment entities. The excluded adjustments include, as applicable:
•restructuring and other costs related to initiatives designed to reduce operating expenses, improve efficiency and simplify our organization;
•non-recurring costs associated with the implementation of non-ordinary course legal or regulatory changes or changes to accounting principles;
•separation costs;
•non-operating litigation reserves and settlements;
•loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, if any;
•losses from the impairment of goodwill, if any; and
•income and loss from divested or run-off business, if any.
Adjusted after-tax operating income attributable to our common shareholders (“Adjusted After-tax Operating Income” or “AATOI”) is derived by excluding the tax effected APTOI adjustments described above, as well as the following tax items from net income attributable to us:
•reclassifications of disproportionate tax effects from AOCI, changes in uncertain tax positions and other tax items related to legacy matters having no relevance to our current businesses or operating performance; and
•deferred income tax valuation allowance releases and charges.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 86
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Key Operating Metrics
The following tables present a reconciliation of pre-tax income (loss)/net income (loss) attributable to Corebridge to adjusted pre-tax operating income (loss)/adjusted after-tax operating income (loss) attributable to Corebridge:
Years Ended December 31,		2023		2022		2021
(in millions)		Pre-tax	Total Tax
(Benefit)
Charge	Non-
controlling
Interests	After Tax		Pre-tax	Total Tax
(Benefit)
Charge	Non-
controlling
Interests	After Tax		Pre-tax	Total Tax
(Benefit)
Charge	Non-
controlling
Interests	After Tax
Pre-tax income/net income, including noncontrolling
   interests
$	940	$	(96)	$	—	$	1,036		$	10,491	$	2,012	$	—	$	8,479		$	11,254	$	2,082	$	—	$	9,172
Noncontrolling interests		—	—	68	68		—	—	(320)	(320)		—	—	(929)	(929)
Pre-tax income/net income attributable to Corebridge		940	(96)	68	1,104		10,491	2,012	(320)	8,159		11,254	2,082	(929)	8,243
Fortitude Re related items															
Net investment income on Fortitude Re funds withheld assets		(1,368)	(291)	—	(1,077)		(891)	(187)	—	(704)		(1,775)	(373)	—	(1,402)
Net realized (gains) losses on Fortitude Re funds withheld assets		224	48	—	176		397	83	—	314		(924)	(194)	—	(730)
Net realized (gains) losses on Fortitude Re funds withheld embedded derivative
1,734	369	—	1,365		(6,347)	(1,370)	—	(4,977)		687	144	—	543
Net realized losses on Fortitude transactions		—	—	—	—		—	—	—	—		(26)	(5)	—	(21)
Subtotal Fortitude Re related items		590	126	—	464		(6,841)	(1,474)	—	(5,367)		(2,038)	(428)	—	(1,610)
Other Reconciling Items:															
Reclassification of disproportionate tax effects from AOCI and other tax adjustments
—	89	—	(89)		—	95	—	(95)		—	174	—	(174)
Deferred income tax valuation allowance (releases) charges		—	(11)	—	11		—	(157)	—	157		—	(26)	—	26
Changes in fair value of market risk benefits, net		(6)	(1)	—	(5)		(958)	(199)	—	(759)		(447)	(95)	—	(352)
Changes in fair value of securities used to hedge guaranteed living benefits		16	3	—	13		(30)	(6)	—	(24)		(56)	(12)	—	(44)
Changes in benefit reserves related to net realized gains (losses)		(6)	(1)	—	(5)		(15)	(3)	—	(12)		15	3	—	12
Loss on extinguishment of debt		—	—	—	—		—	—	—	—		219	46	—	173
Net realized (gains) losses*
1,792	381	—	1,411		211	44	—	167		(711)	(149)	68	(494)
Non-operating litigation reserves and settlements		—	—	—	—		(25)	(5)	—	(20)		—	—	—	—
Separation costs		245	51	—	194		180	142	—	38		—	—	—	—
Restructuring and other costs		197	41	—	156		147	31	—	116		44	9	—	35
Non-recurring costs related to regulatory or accounting changes		18	4	—	14		12	3	—	9		31	7	—	24
Net (gain) loss on divestiture		(676)	(43)	—	(633)		1	—	—	1		(3,081)	(710)	—	(2,371)
Pension expense - non operating		15	3	—	12		1	—	—	1		12	3	—	9
Noncontrolling interests		68	—	(68)	—		(320)	—	320	—		(861)	—	861	—
Subtotal: Other non-Fortitude Re reconciling items		1,663	516	(68)	1,079		(796)	(55)	320	(421)		(4,835)	(750)	929	(3,156)
Total adjustments		2,253	642	(68)	1,543		(7,637)	(1,529)	320	(5,788)		(6,873)	(1,178)	929	(4,766)
Adjusted pre-tax operating income (loss)/Adjusted after-tax operating income (loss) attributable to Corebridge common shareholders		$	3,193	$	546	$	—	$	2,647		$	2,854	$	483	$	—	$	2,371		$	4,381	$	904	$	—	$	3,477
 
*    Includes all net realized gains and losses except earned income (periodic settlements and changes in settlement accruals) on derivative instruments used for non-qualifying (economic) hedging or for asset replication. Additionally, gains (losses) related to the disposition of real estate investments are also excluded from this adjustment.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 87
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Key Operating Metrics
The following table presents a reconciliation of the GAAP tax rate to the adjusted tax rate:
Years Ended December 31,	GAAP		Non-GAAP
Adjustments		Adjusted
Pre-tax						Pre-tax								
(in millions)	Income		Tax		Rate		Adjustments		Tax		APTOI		Tax		Rate
2023															
U.S. federal income tax at statutory rate	$	940 			$	197 			21.0 	%		$	2,253 			$	474 			$	3,193 			$	671 			21.0 	%
Rate adjustments															
Dispositions of subsidiaries	— 			(99)			(10.5)			— 			99 			— 			— 			0.0 	
Reclassifications from accumulated other comprehensive income	— 			(52)			(5.5)			— 			52 			— 			— 			0.0 	
Noncontrolling interest	— 			14 			1.5 			— 			(14)			— 			— 			0.0 	
Dividends received deduction	— 			(59)			(6.3)			— 			— 			— 			(59)			(1.8)	
State and local income taxes	— 			12 			1.3 			— 			7 			— 			19 			0.6 	
Other	— 			(3)			(0.4)			— 			(2)			— 			(5)			(0.2)	
Adjustments to deferred tax assets	— 			(40)			(4.3)			— 			— 					(40)			(1.3)	
Adjustments to prior year tax returns	— 			(67)			(7.1)			— 			37 			— 			(30)			(0.9)	
Share based compensation payments excess tax deduction	— 			(10)			(1.1)			— 			— 			— 			(10)			(0.3)	
Valuation allowance	— 			11 			1.2 			— 			(11)			— 			— 			0.0 	
Amount Attributable to Corebridge	$	940 			$	(96)			(10.2)	%		$	2,253 			$	642 			$	3,193 			$	546 			17.1 	%
2022															
U.S. federal income tax at statutory rate	$	10,491 			$	2,203 			21.0 	%		$	(7,637)			$	(1,604)			$	2,854 			$	599 			21.0 	%
Rate adjustments															
Uncertain tax positions	— 			2 			0.0 			— 			— 			— 			2 			0.1 	
Reclassifications from accumulated other comprehensive income	— 			(84)			(0.7)			— 			84 			— 			— 			0.0 	
Noncontrolling interest	— 			(67)			(0.6)			— 			67 			— 			— 			0.0 	
Dividends received deduction	— 			(36)			(0.3)			— 			— 			— 			(36)			(1.3)	
Tax deconsolidation and separation costs	— 			(104)			(1.0)			— 			104 			— 			— 			0.0 	
State and local income taxes	— 			24 			0.2 			— 			(35)			— 			(11)			(0.4)	
Other	— 			(29)			(0.3)			— 			12 			— 			(17)			(0.6)	
Adjustments to prior year tax returns	— 			(48)			(0.5)			— 			— 			— 			(48)			(1.7)	
Share based compensation payments excess tax deduction	— 			(6)			(0.1)			— 			— 			— 			(6)			(0.2)	
Valuation allowance	— 			157 			1.5 			— 			(157)			— 			— 			— 	
Amount Attributable to Corebridge	$	10,491 			$	2,012 			19.2 	%		$	(7,637)			$	(1,529)			$	2,854 			$	483 			16.9 	%
2021															
U.S. federal income tax at statutory rate	$	11,254 			$	2,363 			21.0 	%		$	(6,873)			$	(1,443)			$	4,381 			$	920 			21.0 	%
Rate adjustments:															
Uncertain tax positions	— 			(69)			(0.6)			— 			66 			— 			(3)			(0.1)	
Reclassifications from accumulated other comprehensive income	— 			(108)			(1.0)			— 			108 			— 			— 			0.0 	
Noncontrolling interest	— 			(197)			(1.7)			— 			181 			— 			(16)			(0.4)	
Dividends received deduction	— 			(37)			(0.3)			— 			— 			— 			(37)			(0.8)	
State and local income taxes	— 			105 			0.9 			— 			(55)			— 			50 			1.1 	
Other	— 			(2)			0.0 			— 			(13)			— 			(15)			(0.3)	
Adjustments to prior year tax returns	— 			(3)			0.0 			— 			4 			— 			1 			0.0 	
Share based compensation payments excess tax deduction	— 			4 			0.0 			— 			— 			— 			4 			0.1 	
Valuation allowance	— 			26 			0.2 			— 			(26)			— 			— 			— 	
Amount Attributable to Corebridge	$	11,254 			$	2,082 			18.5 	%		$	(6,873)			$	(1,178)			$	4,381 			$	904 			20.6 	%
 
Adjusted Book Value is derived by excluding AOCI, adjusted for the cumulative unrealized gains and losses related to Fortitude Re’s funds withheld assets. We believe this measure is useful to investors as it eliminates the asymmetrical impact resulting from changes in fair value of our available-for-sale securities portfolio for which there is largely no offsetting impact for certain related insurance liabilities that are not recorded at fair value with changes in fair value recorded through OCI. It also eliminates asymmetrical impacts where our own credit non-performance risk is recorded through OCI. In addition, we adjust for the cumulative unrealized gains and losses related to Fortitude Re’s funds withheld assets since these fair value movements are economically transferred to Fortitude Re.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 88
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Key Operating Metrics
The following table presents the reconciliation of Book value per common share to Adjusted book value per common share:
December 31,
(in millions, except per common share data)		2023		2022		2021
Total Corebridge shareholders' equity (a)		$	11,766 			$	9,380 			$	27,230 	
Less: Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
(13,458)			(16,863)			8,233 	
Add: Cumulative unrealized gains and losses related to Fortitude Re funds withheld assets		(2,332)			(2,806)			2,629 	
Adjusted Book Value (b)		$	22,892 			$	23,437 			$	21,626 	
Total common shares outstanding (c)		621.7 			645.0 			645.0 	
Book value per common share (a/c)		$	18.93 			$	14.54 			$	42.22 	
Adjusted book value per common share (b/c)		$	36.82 			$	36.34 			$	33.53 	
 
Adjusted Return on Average Equity (“Adjusted ROAE”) is derived by dividing AATOI by average Adjusted Book Value and is used by management to evaluate our recurring profitability and evaluate trends in our business. We believe this measure is useful to investors as it eliminates the asymmetrical impact resulting from changes in fair value of our available-for-sale securities portfolio for which there is largely no offsetting impact for certain related insurance liabilities that are not recorded at fair value with changes in fair value recorded through OCI. It also eliminates asymmetrical impacts where our own credit non-performance risk is recorded through OCI. In addition, we adjust for the cumulative unrealized gains and losses related to Fortitude Re’s funds withheld assets since these fair value movements are economically transferred to Fortitude Re.
The following table presents the reconciliation of Adjusted ROAE:
Years Ended December 31,
(in millions, unless otherwise noted)		2023		2022		2021
Actual or annualized net income (loss) attributable to Corebridge shareholders (a)		$	1,104 			$	8,159 			$	8,243 	
Actual or annualized adjusted after-tax operating income attributable to Corebridge shareholders (b)		2,647 			2,371 			3,477 	
Average Corebridge shareholders’ equity (c)		10,326 			15,497 			34,441 	
Less: Average AOCI		(15,773)			(8,143)			9,105 	
Add: Average cumulative unrealized gains and losses related to Fortitude Re funds withheld assets		(2,702)			(919)			2,994 	
Average Adjusted Book Value (d)		$	23,397 			$	22,721 			$	28,330 	
Return on Average Equity (a/c)		10.7 	%		52.6 	%		23.9 	%
Adjusted ROAE (b/d)		11.3 	%		10.4 	%		12.3 	%
 
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 89
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Key Operating Metrics
Premiums and deposits is a non-GAAP financial measure that includes direct and assumed premiums received and earned on traditional life insurance policies and life-contingent payout annuities, as well as deposits received on universal life insurance, investment-type annuity contracts and GICs. We believe the measure of premiums and deposits is useful in understanding customer demand for our products, evolving product trends and our sales performance period over period.
The following table presents the premiums and deposits:
Years Ended December 31,
(in millions)		2023		2022		2021
Individual Retirement						
Premiums		$	213 			$	235 			$	195 	
Deposits(a)
17,971 			14,900 			13,473 	
Other(b)
(13)			(15)			(11)	
Premiums and deposits		18,171 			15,120 			13,657 	
Group Retirement						
Premiums		20 			19 			22 	
Deposits		8,063 			7,923 			7,744 	
Premiums and deposits(c)(d)
8,083 			7,942 			7,766 	
Life Insurance						
Premiums		1,776 			1,864 			1,586 	
Deposits		1,583 			1,601 			1,635 	
Other(b)
941 			771 			1,007 	
Premiums and deposits		4,300 			4,236 			4,228 	
Institutional Markets						
Premiums		5,607 			2,913 			3,774 	
Deposits		3,695 			1,382 			1,158 	
Other(b)
31 			30 			25 	
Premiums and deposits		9,333 			4,325 			4,957 	
Total						
Premiums		7,616 			5,031 			5,577 	
Deposits		31,312 			25,806 			24,010 	
Other(b)
959 			786 			1,021 	
Premiums and deposits		$	39,887 			$	31,623 			$	30,608 	
 
(a)Excludes deposits from the assets of our retail mutual funds business that were sold to Touchstone on July 16, 2021, or otherwise liquidated in connection with the sale. Deposits from these retail mutual funds was $259 million for the year ended December 31, 2021.
(b)Other principally consists of ceded premiums, in order to reflect gross premiums and deposits.
(c)Excludes client deposits into advisory and brokerage accounts of $2.4 billion, $2.1 billion and $2.5 billion for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
(d)Includes inflows related to in-plan mutual funds of $3.2 billion, $3.5 billion and $3.1 billion for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
Normalized distributions are defined as dividends paid by the Life Fleet subsidiaries as well as the international insurance subsidiaries, less non-recurring dividends, plus dividend capacity that would have been available to Corebridge absent strategies that resulted in utilization of tax attributes. We believe that presenting normalized distributions is useful in understanding a significant component of our liquidity as a stand-alone company.
The following table presents a reconciliation of Dividends to Normalized distributions:
Years Ended December 31,
(in millions)		2023		2022		2021
Subsidiary dividends paid		$	2,027 			$	1,821 			$	1,564 	
Less: Non-recurring dividends		— 			— 			(295)	
Tax sharing payments related to utilization of tax attributes		— 			401 			902 	
Normalized distributions		$	2,027 			$	2,222 			$	2,171 	
 
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 90
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Key Operating Metrics
Net investment income (APTOI basis) is the sum of base portfolio income and variable investment income.
The following table presents a reconciliation of net investment income (net income basis) to net investment income (APTOI basis):
Years Ended December 31,
(in millions)		2023		2022		2021
Net investment income (net income basis)		$	11,078 			$	9,576 			$	11,672 	
Net investment (income) on Fortitude Re funds withheld assets		(1,368)			(891)			(1,775)	
Change in fair value of securities used to hedge guaranteed living benefits		(55)			(56)			(60)	
Other adjustments		(28)			(50)			(30)	
Derivative income recorded in net realized gains (losses)
212 			179 			110 	
Total adjustments		(1,239)			(818)			(1,755)	
Net investment income (APTOI basis) *
$	9,839 			$	8,758 			$	9,917 	
 
* Includes net investment income from Corporate and Other of $92 million, $473 million and $443 million for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
KEY OPERATING METRICS
Assets Under Management and Administration
Assets Under Management (“AUM”) include assets in the general and separate accounts of our subsidiaries that support liabilities and surplus related to our life and annuity insurance products.
Assets Under Administration (“AUA”) include Group Retirement mutual fund assets and other third-party assets that we sell or administer and the notional value of SVW contracts.
Assets Under Management and Administration (“AUMA”) is the cumulative amount of AUM and AUA.
The following table presents a summary of our AUMA:
Years Ended December 31,
(in millions)		2023		2022		2021
Individual Retirement						
AUM		$	149,691		$	136,696		$	160,244
AUA
—		—		—
Total Individual Retirement AUMA		149,691		136,696		160,244
Group Retirement						
AUM		79,910		78,474		97,232
AUA		42,271		36,458		42,610
Total Group Retirement AUMA		122,181		114,932		139,842
Life Insurance						
AUM		26,691		27,760		34,355
AUA		—		—		—
Total Life Insurance AUMA *		26,691		27,760		34,355
Institutional Markets						
AUM		40,678		30,686		32,673
AUA		44,607		47,078		43,830
Total Institutional Markets AUMA		85,285		77,764		76,503
Total AUMA		$	383,848		$	357,152		$	410,944
 
*    The December 31, 2023 AUMA excludes $181 million of assets that were reclassified to Assets held-for-sale in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. See Note 4 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 91
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Key Operating Metrics
Fee and Spread income and Underwriting Margin
Fee income is defined as policy fees plus advisory fees plus other fee income. For our Institutional Markets segment, its SVW products generate fee income.
Spread income is defined as net investment income less interest credited to policyholder account balances, exclusive of amortization of deferred sales inducement assets. Spread income is comprised of both base spread income and variable investment income. For our Institutional Markets segment, its structured settlements, PRT and GIC products generate spread income, which includes premiums, net investment income, less interest credited and policyholder benefits and excludes the annual assumption update.
Underwriting margin for our Life Insurance segment includes premiums, policy fees, other income, net investment income, less interest credited to policyholder account balances and policyholder benefits and excludes the annual assumption update. For our Institutional Markets segment, its Corporate Markets products generate underwriting margin, which includes premiums, net investment income, policy and advisory fee income, less interest credited and policyholder benefits and excludes the annual assumption update.
Base portfolio income includes interest, dividends and foreclosed real estate income, net of investment expenses and non-qualifying (economic) hedges.
Variable investment income includes call and tender income, commercial mortgage loan prepayments, changes in market value of investments accounted for under the fair value option, interest received on defaulted investments (other than foreclosed real estate), income from alternative investments, affordable housing investments and other miscellaneous investment income, including income of certain partnership entities that are required to be consolidated. Alternative investments include private equity funds which are generally reported on a one-quarter lag.
Base spread income means base portfolio income less interest credited to policyholder account balances, excluding the amortization of deferred sales inducement assets.
Base net investment spread means base yield less cost of funds, excluding the amortization of deferred sales inducement assets.
Base yield means the returns from base portfolio income including accretion and impacts from holding cash and short-term investments.
The following table presents a summary of our spread income, fee income and underwriting margin:
Years Ended December 31,
(in millions)	2023		2022		2021
Individual Retirement					
Spread income	$	2,694		$	2,027		$	2,599
Fee income*	1,134		1,192		1,335
Total Individual Retirement*
3,828 			3,219		3,934
Group Retirement					
Spread income	828		867		1,269
Fee income	715		720		817
Total Group Retirement	1,543 			1,587		2,086
Life Insurance					
Underwriting margin	1,442		1,561		1,614
Total Life Insurance	1,442 			1,561		1,614
Institutional Markets
Spread income	355		285		487
Fee income	64		63		61
Underwriting margin	71		77		102
Total Institutional Markets	490 			425		650
Total					
Spread income	3,877		3,179		4,355
Fee income	1,913		1,975		2,213
Underwriting margin	1,513		1,638		1,716
Total	$	7,303		$	6,792		$	8,284
 
*Excludes fee income of $54 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, related to the assets of our retail mutual funds business that were sold to Touchstone on July 16, 2021, or otherwise liquidated in connection with the sale.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 92
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Key Operating Metrics
Net Investment Income (APTOI Basis)
The following table presents a summary of our four insurance operating businesses’ net investment income on an APTOI basis: 
Years Ended December 31,
(in millions)	2023		2022		2021
Individual Retirement					
Base portfolio income	$	4,852		$	3,725		$	3,478
Variable investment income, excluding affordable housing
56		163		711
Affordable housing*	—		—		145
Net investment income	4,908 			3,888		4,334
Group Retirement					
Base portfolio income	1,946		1,882		1,905
Variable investment income, excluding affordable housing	50		118		424
Affordable housing*	—		—		84
Net investment income	1,996 			2,000		2,413
Life Insurance					
Base portfolio income	1,275		1,282		1,246
Variable investment income, excluding affordable housing	7		107		316
Affordable housing*	—		—		59
Net investment income	1,282 			1,389		1,621
Institutional Markets					
Base portfolio income	1,534		995		865
Variable investment income, excluding affordable housing	52		54		269
Affordable housing*	—		—		21
Net investment income	1,586 			1,049		1,155
Total					
Base portfolio income	9,607		7,884		7,494
Variable investment income, excluding affordable housing	165		442		1,720
Affordable housing*	—		—		309
Net investment income (APTOI basis) - Insurance operations	$	9,772		$	8,326		$	9,523
 
*Affordable housing is a component of variable investment income.
Net Flows
Net flows for annuity products in Individual Retirement and Group Retirement represent premiums and deposits less death, surrender and other withdrawal benefits. Net flows for mutual funds represent deposits less withdrawals. For Group Retirement, client deposits into advisory and brokerage accounts less total client withdrawals from advisory and brokerage accounts are not included in net flows.
The following table presents a summary of our Net Flows:
Years Ended December 31,
(in millions)		2023		2022		2021
Individual Retirement						
Fixed Annuities		$	(1,870)		$	(441)		$	(2,396)
Fixed Index Annuities		5,632		4,521		4,072 	
Variable Annuities		(3,429)		(1,672)		(864)	
Total Individual Retirement		333		2,408		812 	
Group Retirement		(6,302)		(3,111)		(3,208)	
Total Net Flows*
$	(5,969)		$	(703)		$	(2,396)
 
*Excludes net flows of $(1.4) billion for the year ended December 31, 2021, related to the retail mutual funds business that was sold to Touchstone on July 16, 2021, or otherwise liquidated in connection with the sale.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 93
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Consolidated Results of Operations
 Consolidated Results of Operations
The following section provides a comparative discussion of our consolidated results of operations on a reported basis for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021. For factors that relate primarily to a specific business, see “Business Segment Operations.”
For a comparative discussion regarding Corebridge’s results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2022 and the year ended December 31, 2021 recast to reflect the adoption of LTDI, see Exhibit 99.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on June 5, 2023.
Years Ended December 31,
(in millions)	2023		2022		2021
Revenues:					
Premiums	$	7,691 			$	5,091 			$	5,653 	
Policy fees	2,797 			2,914 			3,005 	
Net investment income	11,078 			9,576 			11,672 	
Net realized gains (losses)	(3,572)			6,091 			1,752 	
Advisory fee and other income	884 			1,025 			1,175 	
Total revenues	18,878 			24,697 			23,257 	
Benefits and expenses:					
Policyholder benefits	9,362 			6,720 			7,387 	
Change in the fair value of market risk benefits, net	(6)			(958)			(447)	
Interest credited to policyholder account balances	4,427 			3,732 			3,562 	
Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and value of business acquired	1,042 			1,020 			951 	
Non-deferrable insurance commissions	588 			568 			623 	
Advisory fee expenses	261 			266 			322 	
General operating expenses	2,360 			2,323 			2,104 	
Interest expense	580 			534 			389 	
(Gain) loss on extinguishment of debt	— 			— 			219 	
Net (gain) loss on divestitures	(676)			1 			(3,081)	
Net (gains) losses on Fortitude Re transactions	— 			— 			(26)	
Total benefits and expenses	17,938 			14,206 			12,003 	
Income (loss) before income tax expense (benefit)	940 			10,491 			11,254 	
Income tax expense (benefit)	(96)			2,012 			2,082 	
Net income (loss)	1,036 			8,479 			9,172 	
Less: Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests	(68)			320 			929 	
Net income (loss) attributable to Corebridge	$	1,104 			$	8,159 			$	8,243 	
 
The following table presents certain balance sheet data:
(in millions, except per common share data)	December 31, 2023		December 31, 2022
Balance sheet data:			
Total assets	$	379,270 			$	360,322 	
Long-term debt	$	9,118 			$	7,868 	
Debt of consolidated investment entities	$	2,504 			$	5,958 	
Total Corebridge shareholders’ equity	$	11,766 			$	9,380 	
Book value per common share	$	18.93 			$	14.54 	
Adjusted book value per common share	$	36.82 			$	36.34 	
 
Financial Highlights
2023 to 2022 Net Income Comparison
Income (loss) before income tax expense (benefit)
We recorded pre-tax income of $940 million in the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to pre-tax income of $10.5 billion in the year ended December 31, 2022. The change in pre-tax income was primarily due to:
•lower realized gains of $9.7 billion primarily driven by losses on the Fortitude Re funds withheld embedded derivative;
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 94
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Consolidated Results of Operations
•higher policyholder benefits of $2.6 billion primarily on new pension risk transfer business;
•lower favorable change in the fair value of market risk benefits, net of $952 million primarily driven by the impacts of changes in equity markets and interest rate volatility; and
•higher interest credited to policyholder account balances of $695 million primarily due to higher interest rates in fixed and fixed index annuities and increased interest rates on the growing GIC business.
Partially offset by:
•higher premiums of $2.6 billion primarily on new pension risk transfer business;
•higher net investment income of $1.5 billion primarily driven by higher base portfolio income and higher income related to the Fortitude Re funds withheld assets partially offset by lower variable investment income; and
•higher gain on divestitures of $677 million primarily resulting from the sale of Laya in 2023.
Income tax expense (benefit)
For the year ended December 31, 2023, there was an income tax benefit of $96 million on income from operations, resulting in an effective tax rate on income from operations of (10.2)%.
Refer to the reconciliation of the GAAP tax rate to the adjusted tax rate presented in “–– Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Key Operating Metrics” presented herein.
Adjusted pre-tax operating income
The following table presents the impacts in connection with the adoption of LDTI on our previously reported APTOI for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021:
Year Ended December 31, 2022		Year Ended December 31, 2021
As Previously Reported	Effect of Change	Updated Balances Post-Adoption of LDTI		As Previously Reported	Effect of Change	Updated Balances Post-Adoption of LDTI
(in millions)	
Revenues:							
Premiums	$	5,115 		$	(2)		$	5,113 			$	5,646 		$	17 		$	5,663 	
Policy fees	2,972 		(58)		2,914 			3,051 		(46)		3,005 	
Total adjusted revenues
18,015 		(60)		17,955 			20,490 		(29)		20,461 	
Benefits and expenses:							
Policyholder benefits	7,333 		(599)		6,734 			8,028 		(655)		7,373 	
Interest credited to policyholder account balances	3,681 		44 		3,725 			3,569 		11 		3,580 	
Amortization of deferred acquisition costs	1,128 		(108)		1,020 			975 		(24)		951 	
Non-deferrable insurance commissions	636 		(68)		568 			680 		(57)		623 	
Total benefits and expenses	15,512 		(731)		14,781 			15,944 		(725)		15,219 	
Adjusted pre-tax operating income	2,183 		671 		2,854 			3,685 		696 		4,381 	
 
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 95
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Consolidated Results of Operations
The following table presents total Corebridge’s adjusted pre-tax operating income:
Years Ended December 31,
(in millions)	2023		2022		2021
Premiums	$	7,694 			$	5,113 			$	5,663 	
Policy fees	2,797 			2,914 			3,005 	
Net investment income	9,839 			8,758 			9,917 	
Net realized gains*	(2)			170 			701 	
Advisory fee and other income	884 			1,000 			1,175 	
Total adjusted revenues	21,212		17,955		20,461
Policyholder benefits	9,368 			6,734 			7,373 	
Interest credited to policyholder account balances	4,391 			3,725 			3,580 	
Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs	1,042 			1,020 			951 	
Non-deferrable insurance commissions	588 			568 			623 	
Advisory fee expenses	261 			266 			322 	
General operating expenses	1,885 			1,984 			2,016 	
Interest expense	552 			484 			354 	
Total benefits and expenses	18,087		14,781		15,219
Noncontrolling interests	68 			(320)			(861)	
Adjusted pre-tax operating income	$	3,193		$	2,854		$	4,381
 
* Net realized gains (losses) includes the gains (losses) related to the disposition of real estate investments.
2023 to 2022 APTOI Comparison
APTOI increased $339 million, primarily due to:
•higher premiums of $2.6 billion primarily on new pension risk transfer business; and
•higher net investment income of $1.1 billion primarily driven by higher base portfolio income partially offset by lower variable investment income reflecting lower alternative investment income.
Partially offset by:
•higher policyholder benefits of $2.6 billion primarily on new pension risk transfer business;
•higher interest credited to policyholder account balances of $666 million primarily due to higher sales activity in fixed and fixed index annuities and increased interest rates on the growing GIC business;
•lower policy and advisory fee income, net of advisory fee expenses, of $228 million primarily due to lower average variable annuity separate account asset values driven by negative net flows; and
•higher interest expense of $68 million primarily due to the issuance of senior unsecured notes, hybrid junior subordinated notes and borrowing under our unsecured Three-Year Delayed Draw Term Loan Agreement (the “Three-Year DDTL Facility”) beginning in April 2022 totaling $9.0 billion partially offset by the elimination of interest expense from the $8.3 billion affiliated promissory note to AIG that was repaid in 2022.
 
Business Segment Operations
Our business operations consist of five reportable segments:
•Individual Retirement – consists of fixed annuities, fixed index annuities, variable annuities and retail mutual funds. On February 8, 2021, we announced the execution of a definitive agreement with Touchstone to sell certain assets of our retail mutual funds business. This Touchstone transaction closed on July 16, 2021. For further information on this sale, see Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
•Group Retirement – consists of record-keeping, plan administrative and compliance services, financial planning and advisory solutions offered in-plan, along with proprietary and limited non-proprietary annuities, advisory and brokerage products offered out-of-plan.
•Life Insurance – primary products in the United States include term life and universal life insurance. The International Life business issues individual and group life insurance in the United Kingdom, and distributed private medical insurance in Ireland. On October 31, 2023 Corebridge completed the sale of Laya and the AIG Life sale is expected to close in the first half of 2024.
•Institutional Markets – consists of SVW products, structured settlement and PRT annuities, Corporate Markets products that include COLI-BOLI, private placement variable universal life and private placement variable annuities products and GICs.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 96
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations
•Corporate and Other – consists primarily of:
–corporate expenses not attributable to our other segments;
–interest expense on financial debt;
–results of our consolidated investment entities;
–institutional asset management business, which includes managing assets for non-consolidated affiliates; and
–results of our legacy insurance lines ceded to Fortitude Re.
For a comparative discussion regarding Corebridge’s results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2022 and the year ended December 31, 2021 recast to reflect the adoption of LTDI, see Exhibit 99.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on June 5, 2023.
The following tables summarize adjusted pre-tax operating income (loss) from our segments:
See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Years Ended December 31,
(in millions)	2023		2022		2021
Individual Retirement	$	2,312		$	1,673		$	2,289
Group Retirement	754		783		1,249
Life Insurance	373		447		459
Institutional Markets	379		334		547
Corporate and Other	(617)		(395)		(161)
Consolidation and elimination	(8)		12		(2)
Adjusted pre-tax operating income	$	3,193		$	2,854		$	4,381
 
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 97
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations
DISCUSSION OF SEGMENT RESULTS
Individual Retirement
Individual Retirement Results
Years Ended December 31,
(in millions)	2023		2022		2021
Revenues:					
Premiums	$	213		$	235		$	195
Policy fees	708		741		797
Net investment income:					
Base portfolio income	4,852		3,725		3,478
Variable investment income (a)
56		163		856
Net investment income	4,908		3,888		4,334
Advisory fee and other income(b)(c)
426 			451		592
Total adjusted revenues	6,255		5,315		5,918
Benefits and expenses:					
Policyholder benefits	204		285		317
Interest credited to policyholder account balances	2,269		1,916		1,793
Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs	572		523		451
Non-deferrable insurance commissions	355		351		396
Advisory fee expenses	141		141		189
General operating expenses	402		426		437
Interest expense	—		—		46
Total benefits and expenses	3,943		3,642		3,629
Adjusted pre-tax operating income	$	2,312		$	1,673		$	2,289
 
(a)    Includes income from affordable housing of $145 million for the year ended December 31, 2021.
(b)    Includes fee income of $54 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, related to assets of the retail mutual funds business that were sold to Touchstone on July 16, 2021, or otherwise liquidated, in connection with the sale.
(c)     Includes advisory fee income from registered investment services, 12b-1 fees (i.e., marketing and distribution fee income), and other asset management fee income.
Individual Retirement Sources of Earnings
The following table presents the sources of earnings of the Individual Retirement segment. We believe providing APTOI using this view is useful for gaining an understanding of our overall results of operations and the significant drivers of our earnings:
Years Ended December 31,
(in millions)	2023		2022		2021
Spread income(a)
$	2,694		$	2,027		$	2,599 	
Fee income(b)
1,134		1,192		1,335 	
Policyholder benefits, net of premiums	9		(50)			(122)	
Non-deferrable insurance commissions	(355)		(351)			(396)	
Amortization of DAC and DSI	(627)		(578)			(509)	
General operating expenses	(402)		(426)			(437)	
Other(c)
(141)		(141)			(181)	
Adjusted pre-tax operating income	$	2,312		$	1,673		$	2,289
 
(a)Spread income represents net investment income less interest credited to policyholder account balances, exclusive of amortization of DSI of $55 million, $55 million and $58 million for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021 respectively.
(b)Fee income represents policy fees plus advisory fee and other income. Fee income excludes fee income of $54 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, related to assets of the retail mutual funds business that were sold to Touchstone on July 16, 2021, or otherwise liquidated, in connection with the sale.
(c)Other primarily represents advisory fee expenses. The year ended December 31, 2021, include fee income related to assets of the retail mutual funds business that were sold to Touchstone on July 16, 2021, or otherwise liquidated, in connection with the sale and interest expense.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 98
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations
Financial Highlights
2023 to 2022 APTOI Comparison
APTOI increased $639 million, primarily due to:
•higher spread income of $667 million primarily driven by higher base spread income of $774 million due to improved base yields and growth in invested assets driven by higher sales, partially offset by lower variable investment income of $107 million.
Partially offset by:
•lower fee income of $58 million, primarily due to a decrease in mortality and expense fees of $35 million and other fee income of $23 million due to lower average variable annuity separate account asset values driven by negative net flows.
AUMA
The following table presents Individual Retirement AUMA by product:
December 31,
(in millions)		2023		2022		2021
Fixed annuities		$	53,570 			$	51,806 			$	57,823 	
Fixed index annuities		40,661 			30,403 			31,809 	
Variable annuities:						
Variable annuities - General Account		7,715 			9,443 			12,862 	
Variable annuities - Separate Accounts		47,745 			45,044 			57,750 	
Variable annuities		55,460 			54,487 			70,612 	
Total		$	149,691 			$	136,696 			$	160,244 	
     
2023 to 2022 AUMA Comparison
AUMA increased $13.0 billion driven by an increase of $10.3 billion in the general account and higher separate accounts asset values of $2.7 billion. The general account increased mostly due to positive general account net flows and income. The separate account increased primarily due to increases in the equity markets, partially offset by outflows from separate accounts.
Spread and Fee Income
The following table presents Individual Retirement spread and fee income:
Years Ended December 31,
(in millions)	2023		2022		2021
Spread income:					
Total spread income					
Base portfolio income	$	4,852 			$	3,725 			$	3,478 	
Interest credited to policyholder account balances	(2,214)			(1,861)			(1,735)	
Base spread income	2,638 			1,864 			1,743 	
Variable investment income, excluding affordable housing
56 			163 			711 	
Affordable housing	— 			— 			145 	
Total spread income(a)
$	2,694 			$	2,027 			$	2,599 	
Fee income:					
Policy fees	$	708 			$	741 			$	797 	
Advisory fees and other income(b)
426 			451 			538 	
Total fee income	$	1,134 			$	1,192 			$	1,335 	
 
(a)    Excludes amortization of DSI assets of $55 million, $55 million and $58 million for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively
(b)    Excludes fee income of $54 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, related to assets of the retail mutual funds business that were sold to Touchstone on July 16, 2021, or otherwise liquidated, in connection with the sale.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 99
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations
The following table presents Individual Retirement net investment spread:
Years Ended December 31,
2023		2022		2021
Fixed annuities base net investment spread:					
Base yield*
5.05 	%		4.03 	%		3.94 	%
Cost of funds	2.95 			2.69 			2.64 	
Fixed annuities base net investment spread	2.10 			1.34 			1.30 	
Fixed index annuities base net investment spread:					
Base yield*
4.82 			3.90 			3.78 	
Cost of funds	2.01 			1.54 			1.39 	
Fixed index annuities base net investment spread	2.81 			2.36 			2.39 	
Variable annuities base net investment spread:					
Base yield*
3.82 			3.85 			3.96 	
Cost of funds	1.48 			1.43 			1.42 	
Variable annuities base net investment spread	2.34 			2.42 			2.54 	
Total Individual Retirement base net investment spread:					
Base yield*
4.89 			3.98 			3.89 	
Cost of funds	2.47 			2.18 			2.15 	
Total Individual Retirement base net investment spread	2.42 	%		1.80 	%		1.74 	%
 
*    Includes returns from base portfolio including accretion and income (loss) from certain other invested assets.
2023 to 2022 Comparison
See “Financial Highlights.”
Premiums and Deposits and Net Flows
For Individual Retirement, premiums primarily represent amounts received on life-contingent payout annuities, while deposits represent sales on investment-oriented products.
Net flows for annuity products in Individual Retirement represent premiums and deposits less death, surrender and other withdrawal benefits.
Premiums and Deposits	Years Ended December 31,
(in millions)	2023		2022		2021
Fixed annuities	$	7,880 			$	5,695 			$	3,011 	
Fixed index annuities	8,505 			6,316 			5,621 	
Variable annuities	1,786 			3,109 			5,025 	
Total*
$	18,171 			$	15,120 			$	13,657 	
 
*Excludes deposits of the retail mutual funds business that were sold to Touchstone on July 16, 2021, or otherwise liquidated, in connection with the sale. Deposits from retail mutual funds were $259 million for the year ended December 31, 2021.
Net Flows	Years Ended December 31,
(in millions)	2023		2022		2021
Fixed annuities	$	(1,870)			$	(441)			$	(2,396)	
Fixed index annuities	5,632 			4,521 			4,072 	
Variable annuities	(3,429)			(1,672)			(864)	
Total*
$	333 			$	2,408 			$	812 	
 
*Excludes net flows related to the assets of the retail mutual funds business that were sold to Touchstone on July 16, 2021, or otherwise liquidated, in connection with the sale. Net flows from retail mutual funds were $(1.4) billion for the year ended December 31, 2021. Net flows for retail mutual funds represent deposits less withdrawals.
2023 to 2022 Comparison
Fixed Annuities Net outflows increased by $1.4 billion over the prior year, primarily due to higher surrenders and withdrawals of $3.5 billion and death benefits of $85 million, partially offset by higher premiums and deposits of $2.2 billion due to strong sales execution as interest rates rose.
Fixed Index Annuities Net inflows increased by $1.1 billion primarily due to higher premiums and deposits of $2.2 billion due to strong sales execution as interest rates rose, partially offset by higher surrenders and withdrawals of $1.0 billion and higher death benefits of $69 million.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 100
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations
Variable Annuities Net outflows increased $1.8 billion primarily due to lower premium and deposits of $1.3 billion, due to market volatility and higher surrenders and withdrawals of $496 million, partially offset by lower death benefits of $62 million.
Surrenders
The following table presents Individual Retirement surrender rates:
Years Ended December 31,
2023		2022		2021
Fixed annuities	16.3 	%		9.2 	%		7.2 	%
Fixed index annuities	6.7 			4.8 			4.7 	
Variable annuities	7.8 			6.5 			7.2 	
 
The following table presents account values for fixed annuities, fixed index annuities and variable annuities by surrender charge category:
December 31,
2023		2022	2021
(in millions)	Fixed
Annuities		Fixed Index
Annuities		Variable
Annuities		Fixed
Annuities		Fixed Index
Annuities		Variable
Annuities		Fixed
Annuities		Fixed Index
Annuities		Variable Annuities
No surrender charge	$	21,793 			$	1,727 			$	29,819 			$	24,889 			$	2,270 			$	27,037 			$	26,165 			$	1,895 			$	31,910 	
Greater than 0% - 2%	1,023 			3,326 			6,717 			1,783 			1,353 			6,962 			2,071 			1,587 			10,276 	
Greater than 2% - 4%	2,844 			6,413 			5,799 			2,256 			4,532 			5,081 			2,401 			3,958 			9,394 	
Greater than 4%	21,766 			28,128 			11,014 			18,905 			25,196 			12,082 			16,285 			21,222 			12,435 	
Non-surrenderable(a)
2,474 			— 			1,156 			2,453 			— 			1,155 			2,372 			— 			1,149 	
Total account value(b)
$	49,900 			$	39,594 			$	54,505 			$	50,286 			$	33,351 			$	52,317 			$	49,294 			$	28,662 			$	65,164 	
 
(a)    The non-surrenderable portion of variable annuities relates to funding agreements.
(b)    Includes payout Immediate Annuities and funding agreements.
Individual Retirement annuities are typically subject to a three- to ten-year surrender charge period, depending on the product. For fixed and fixed index annuities, the proportion of account value subject to surrender charge at December 31, 2023 increased compared to December 31, 2022 primarily due to growth in business. The increase in the proportion of account value with no surrender charge for variable annuities as of December 31, 2023 compared to December 31, 2022 was principally due to normal aging of business.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 101
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations
Group Retirement
Group Retirement Results
Years Ended December 31,
(in millions)		2023		2022		2021
Revenues:						
Premiums		$	20		$	19		$	22 	
Policy fees		406		415		480
Net investment income:						
Base portfolio income		1,946		1,882		1,905
Variable investment income(a)
50		118		508
Net investment income		1,996		2,000		2,413
Advisory fee and other income(b)
309		305		337
Total adjusted revenues		2,731		2,739		3,252
Benefits and expenses:						
Policyholder benefits		31		35		31
Interest credited to policyholder account balances		1,182		1,147		1,159
Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs		82		80		78
Non-deferrable insurance commissions		124		123		122
Advisory fee expenses		118		124		133
General operating expenses		440		447		445
Interest expense		— 			—		35
Total benefits and expenses		1,977		1,956		2,003
Adjusted pre-tax operating income		$	754		$	783		$	1,249
 
(a)    Includes income from affordable housing of $84 million for the year ended December 31, 2021.
(b)    Includes advisory fee income from registered investment services, 12b-1 fees (i.e., marketing and distribution fee income), other asset management fee income, and commission-based broker-dealer services.
Group Retirement Sources of Earnings
The following table presents the sources of earnings of the Group Retirement segment. We believe providing APTOI using this view is useful for gaining an understanding of our overall results of operations and the significant drivers of our earnings:
Years Ended December 31,
(in millions)		2023		2022		2021
Spread income(a)
$	828 			$	867 			$	1,269 	
Fee income(b)
715 			720 			817 	
Policyholder benefits, net of premiums		(11)			(16)			(9)	
Non-deferrable insurance commissions		(124)			(123)			(122)	
Amortization of DAC and DSI		(96)			(94)			(93)	
General operating expenses		(440)			(447)			(445)	
Other(c)
(118)			(124)			(168)	
Adjusted pre-tax operating income		$	754 			$	783 			$	1,249 	
 
(a)    Spread income represents net investment income less interest credited to policyholder account balances. Excludes amortization of DSI assets of $14 million, $14 million and $15 million for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively
(b)    Fee income represents policy fee and advisory fee and other income.
(c)    Other consists of advisory fee expenses and interest expense.
Financial Highlights
2023 to 2022 APTOI Comparison
APTOI decreased $29 million, primarily due to:
•lower spread income of $39 million driven by a decrease in variable investment income of $68 million primarily due to lower alternative investment income, partially offset by higher base spread income of $29 million primarily due to higher yields on the base portfolio assets.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 102
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations
AUMA
The following table presents Group Retirement AUMA by product:
December 31,
(in millions)		2023		2022		2021
AUMA by asset type:						
In-plan spread based		$	25,160 			$	27,473 			$	32,549 	
In-plan fee based		54,807 			47,838 			60,300 	
Total in-plan AUMA(a)
79,967 			75,311 			92,849 	
Out-of-plan proprietary - General Account		16,664 			16,769 			19,697 	
Out-of-plan proprietary - Separate Accounts		11,075 			10,429 			13,466 	
Total out-of-plan proprietary annuities
27,739 			27,198 			33,163 	
Advisory and brokerage assets		14,475 			12,423 			13,830 	
Total out-of-plan AUMA(b)
42,214 			39,621 			46,993 	
Total AUMA		$	122,181 			$	114,932 			$	139,842 	
 
(a)    Includes $12.7 billion of AUMA at December 31, 2023, $12.5 billion of AUMA at December 31, 2022 and $15.1 billion of AUMA at December 31, 2021 that is associated with our in-plan investment advisory service that we offer to participants at an additional fee.
(b)    Includes $12.0 billion of AUMA at December 31, 2023, $10.7 billion of AUMA at December 31, 2022 and $11.9 billion of AUMA at December 31, 2021 that is associated with our out-of-plan investment advisory service that we offer to participants at an additional fee.
2023 to 2022 AUMA Comparison
In-plan assets increased by $4.7 billion driven by a $7.0 billion increase in fee based assets, primarily due to higher equity markets, partially offset by $2.3 billion decrease in spread based assets, primarily due to negative net flows. Out-of-plan proprietary annuity assets increased by $0.5 billion, primarily due to positive net flows. The increase of advisory and brokerage assets of $2.1 billion was driven by net new client deposits and higher equity markets.
Spread and Fee Income
The following table presents Group Retirement spread and fee income:
Years Ended December 31,
(in millions)		2023		2022		2021
Spread income:						
Base portfolio income		$	1,946 			$	1,882 			$	1,905 	
Interest credited to policyholder account balances		(1,168)			(1,133)			(1,144)	
Base spread income		778 			749 			761 	
Variable investment income, excluding affordable housing		50 			118 			424 	
Affordable housing		— 			— 			84 	
Total spread income*
$	828 			$	867 			$	1,269 	
Fee income:						
Policy fees		$	406 			$	415 			$	480 	
Advisory fees and other income		309 			305 			337 	
Total fee income		$	715 			$	720 			$	817 	
 
*Excludes amortization of DSI assets of $14 million, $14 million and $15 million for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively
Years Ended December 31,
2023		2022		2021
Base net investment spread:						
Base yield*
4.27 	%		4.04 	%		4.11 	%
Cost of funds		2.76 			2.60 			2.62 	
Base net investment spread		1.51 	%		1.44 	%		1.49 	%
 
*Includes returns from base portfolio, including accretion and income (loss) from certain other invested assets.
2023 to 2022 Comparison
See “Financial Highlights.”
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 103
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations
Premiums and Deposits and Net Flows
For Group Retirement, premiums primarily represent amounts received on life-contingent payout annuities while deposits represent sales on investment-oriented products.
Net flows for annuity products included in Group Retirement represent premiums and deposits less death, surrender and other withdrawal benefits. Net flows for mutual funds represent deposits less withdrawals. For Group Retirement, client deposits into advisory and brokerage accounts less total client withdrawals from advisory and brokerage accounts are not included in net flows. Net new assets into these products contribute to growth in AUA rather than AUM.
Premiums and Deposits and Net Flows		Years Ended December 31,
(in millions)		2023		2022		2021
In-plan(a)(b)
$	5,165 			$	5,818 			$	5,911 	
Out-of-plan proprietary variable annuity		712 			975 			1,288 	
Out-of-plan proprietary fixed and index annuities		2,206 			1,149 			567 	
Premiums and deposits(c)
$	8,083 			$	7,942 			$	7,766 	
Net Flows		$	(6,302)			$	(3,111)			$	(3,208)	
 
(a)    In-plan premium and deposits include sales of variable and fixed annuities as well as mutual funds for 403(b), 401(a), 457(b) and 401(k) plans.
(b)    Includes inflows related to in-plan mutual funds of $3.2 billion, $3.5 billion and $3.1 billion for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
(c)    Excludes client deposits into advisory and brokerage accounts of $2.4 billion, $2.1 billion and $2.5 billion for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
2023 to 2022 Comparison
Net flows remained negative and declined by $3.2 billion primarily due to an increase in surrenders and withdrawals of $3.4 billion, partially offset by an increase in deposits of $141 million and a decrease in death and payout benefit annuity benefits of $65 million. Large plan acquisitions and surrenders resulted in lower net flows of $1.4 billion compared to the prior year. Excluding large plan acquisitions and surrenders, net outflows were concentrated in higher contractual guaranteed minimum crediting rates.
Surrenders
The following table presents Group Retirement surrender rates:
Years Ended December 31,
2023		2022	2021
Surrender rates		12.9 	%		9.5 	%	8.8 	%
 
The following table presents account value for Group Retirement annuities by surrender charge category:
December 31,
(in millions)		
2023(a)
2022(a)
2021(a)
No surrender charge(b)
$	70,500 			$	69,885 			$	80,725 	
Greater than 0% - 2%		1,251 			454 			711 	
Greater than 2% - 4%		1,698 			435 			854 	
Greater than 4%		5,757 			6,281 			6,139 	
Non-surrenderable		490 			945 			802 	
Total account value(c)
$	79,696 			$	78,000 			$	89,231 	
 
(a)    Excludes mutual fund assets under administration of $27.8 billion, $24.0 billion and $28.8 billion at December 31, 2023, December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, respectively.
(b)    Group Retirement amounts in this category include account values in the general account of approximately $4.1 billion, $4.5 billion and $4.7 billion for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively, which are subject to 20 percent annual withdrawal limitations at the participant level and account values in the general account of $5.3 billion, $5.8 billion and $5.7 billion for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively, which are subject to 20 percent annual withdrawal limitations at the plan level.
(c)    Includes payout Immediate Annuities and funding agreements.
2023 to 2022 Comparison
Group Retirement annuity deposits are typically subject to a four- to seven-year surrender charge period, depending on the product. In addition, for annuity assets held within an employer defined contribution plan, participants can only withdraw funds in certain circumstances without incurring tax penalties (for example, separation from service), regardless of surrender charges. At December 31, 2023, Group Retirement annuity account values with no surrender charge increased compared to December 31, 2022 primarily due to an increase in assets under management from higher equity markets partially offset by negative net flows.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 104
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations
Life Insurance
Life Insurance Results
Years Ended December 31,
(in millions)		2023		2022		2021
Revenues:						
Premiums		$	1,776 			$	1,864 			$	1,586 	
Policy fees		1,488 			1,564 			1,541 	
Net investment income:						
Base portfolio income		1,275 			1,282 			1,246 	
Variable investment income*
7 			107 			375 	
Net investment income		1,282 			1,389 			1,621 	
Other income		93 			121 			110 	
Total adjusted revenues		4,639 			4,938 			4,858 	
Benefits and expenses:						
Policyholder benefits		2,838 			3,010 			2,842 	
Interest credited to policyholder account balances		340 			342 			354 	
Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs		379 			410 			416 	
Non-deferrable insurance commissions		88 			72 			80 	
Advisory fee expenses		2 			1 			— 	
General operating expenses		619 			656 			682 	
Interest expense		— 			— 			25 	
Total benefits and expenses		4,266 			4,491 			4,399 	
Adjusted pre-tax operating income		$	373 			$	447 			$	459 	
 
*    Includes income from affordable housing of $59 million for the year ended December 31, 2021.
Life Insurance Sources of Earnings
The following table presents the sources of earnings of the Life Insurance segment. We believe providing APTOI using this view is useful for gaining an understanding of our overall results of operations and the significant drivers of our earnings:
Years Ended December 31,
(in millions)		2023		2022		2021
Underwriting margin(a)
$	1,442 			$	1,561 			$	1,614 	
General operating expenses		(619)			(656)			(682)	
Non-deferrable insurance commissions		(88)			(72)			(80)	
Amortization of DAC		(379)			(410)			(416)	
Impact of annual actuarial assumption update		19 			25 			48 	
Other(b)
(2)			(1)			(25)	
Adjusted pre-tax operating income (loss)		$	373 			$	447 			$	459 	
 
(a)    Underwriting margin represents premiums, policy fees, net investment income and other income, less policyholder benefits and interest credited to policyholder account balances. Underwriting margin is also exclusive of the impacts from the annual assumption update.
(b)    Other primarily represents interest expense and advisory fee expenses and interest expense.
Financial Highlights
2023 to 2022 APTOI Comparison
APTOI decreased $74 million, primarily due to:
•lower underwriting margin of $119 million from:
–lower net investment income of $107 million driven by:
– $100 million lower variable investment income reflecting lower gains on call and tender income and reduced alternatives performance;
–lower other income of $28 million, primarily driven by the sale of Laya in October 2023.
Partially offset by:
–favorable premiums and fees, net of policyholder benefits, excluding actuarial assumptions update, of $14 million, primarily driven by favorable domestic mortality.
Partially offset by:
•lower general operating expenses of $37 million.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 105
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations
AUMA
The following table presents Life Insurance AUMA:
December 31,
(in millions)		2023		2022		2021
Total AUMA*
$	26,691 			$	27,760 			$	34,355 	
 
*    The December 2023 AUMA excludes $181 million of assets that were reclassified to Assets held-for-sale in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. See Note 4 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
December 31, 2023 to December 31, 2022 AUMA Comparison
AUMA decreased $1.1 billion in the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the prior year-end due to increasing interest rates and widening credit spreads resulting in unrealized losses from fixed maturities securities and transfer of assets to a reinsurer.
Underwriting Margin
The following table presents Life Insurance underwriting margin:
Years Ended December 31,
(in millions)		2023		2022		2021
Premiums		$	1,776 			$	1,864 			$	1,586 	
Policy fees		1,488 			1,564 			1,541 	
Net investment income		1,282 			1,389 			1,621 	
Other income		93 			121 			110 	
Policyholder benefits		(2,838)			(3,010)			(2,842)	
Interest credited to policyholder account balances		(340)			(342)			(354)	
Less: Impact of annual actuarial assumption update		(19)			(25)			(48)	
Underwriting margin		$	1,442 			$	1,561 			$	1,614 	
 
2023 to 2022 Comparison
See “Financial Highlights.”
Premiums and Deposits
Premiums and Deposits for Life Insurance represent amounts received on life and health policies. Premiums generally represent amounts received on traditional life products, while deposits represent amounts received on universal life products.
Years Ended December 31,
(in millions)		2023		2022		2021
Traditional Life		$	1,811 			$	1,820 			$	1,804 	
Universal Life		1,583 			1,600 			1,635 	
Total U.S.		3,394 			3,420 			3,439 	
International		906 			816 			789 	
Premiums and deposits		$	4,300 			$	4,236 			$	4,228 	
 
2023 to 2022 Comparison
Premiums and deposits, excluding the effect of foreign exchange, increased $58 million in 2023 compared to the prior year primarily due to growth in international life premiums.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 106
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations
Institutional Markets
Institutional Markets Results
Years Ended December 31,
(in millions)		2023		2022		2021
Revenues:						
Premiums		$	5,607 			$	2,913 			$	3,774 	
Policy fees		195 			194 			187 	
Net investment income:						
Base portfolio income		1,534 			995 			865 	
Variable investment income*
52 			54 			290 	
Net investment income		1,586 			1,049 			1,155 	
Other income		2 			2 			2 	
Total adjusted revenues		7,390 			4,158 			5,118 	
Benefits and expenses:						
Policyholder benefits		6,298 			3,404 			4,183 	
Interest credited to policyholder account balances		600 			320 			274 	
Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs		9 			7 			6 	
Non-deferrable insurance commissions		19 			20 			22 	
General operating expenses		85 			73 			77 	
Interest expense		— 			— 			9 	
Total benefits and expenses		7,011 			3,824 			4,571 	
Adjusted pre-tax operating income		$	379 			$	334 			$	547 	
 
* Includes income from affordable housing of $21 million for the year ended December 31, 2021.
Institutional Markets Sources of Earnings
The following table presents the sources of earnings of the Institutional Markets segment. We believe providing APTOI using this view is useful for gaining an understanding of our overall results of operations and the significant drivers of our earnings:
Years Ended December 31,
(in millions)		2023		2022		2021
Spread income(a)
$	355 			$	285 			$	487 	
Fee income(b)
64 			63 			61 	
Underwriting margin(c)
71 			77 			102 	
Non-deferrable insurance commissions		(19)			(20)			(22)	
General operating expenses		(85)			(73)			(77)	
Other(d)
(7)			2 			(4)	
Adjusted pre-tax operating income		$	379 			$	334 			$	547 	
 
(a)    Represents spread income on GIC, PRT and structured settlement products.
(b)    Represents fee income on SVW products.
(c)    Represents underwriting margin from Corporate Markets products, including COLI-BOLI, private placement variable universal life insurance and private placement variable annuity products.
(d)    Includes net investment income on SVW products of $0 million, $5 million and $11 million for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively 2021 includes interest expense.
Financial Highlights
2023 to 2022 APTOI Comparison
APTOI increased $45 million, primarily due to:
•higher spread income of $70 million driven by $61 million higher base portfolio spread income and $9 million higher variable investment income primarily from private equity investments and yield enhancements.
Partially offset by:
•higher general operating expenses of $12 million supporting the business growth;
•lower other activity of $9 million primarily driven by lower stable value wrap net investment income; and
•lower underwriting margin of $6 million primarily driven by lower variable investment income from private equity and call and tender income in the Corporate Markets business.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 107
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations
AUMA
The following table presents Institutional Markets AUMA:
December 31,
(in millions)	2023		2022		2021
SVW (AUA)	$	44,607		$	47,078		$	43,830
GIC, PRT and Structured settlements (AUM)	33,579		23,096		23,863
All other (AUM)	7,099 			7,590 			8,810 	
Total AUMA	$	85,285 			$	77,764 			$	76,503 	
 
2023 to 2022 AUMA Comparison
AUMA increased $7.5 billion due to premiums and deposits of $9.3 billion, primarily PRT and GIC products, and investment performance and other activity of $5.9 billion, partially offset by benefit payments on the GIC, PRT and structured settlement products of $4.1 billion and net outflows of $3.6 billion from SVW products.
Spread Income, Fee Income and Underwriting Margin
The following table presents Institutional Markets spread income, fee income and underwriting margin:
Years Ended December 31,
(in millions)		2023		2022		2021
Premiums		$	5,642 			$	2,950 			$	3,810 	
Net investment income		1,446 			901 			969 	
Policyholder benefits		(6,243)			(3,352)			(4,126)	
Interest credited to policyholder account balances		(490)			(213)			(166)	
Less: impact of annual actuarial assumption update		— 			(1)			— 	
Total spread income(a)
$	355 			$	285 			$	487 	
SVW fees		$	64 			$	63 			$	61 	
Total fee income		$	64 			$	63 			$	61 	
Premiums		$	(35)			$	(37)			$	(35)	
Policy fees (excluding SVW)		131 			131 			126 	
Net investment income		140 			143 			175 	
Other income		2 			2 			1 	
Policyholder benefits		(55)			(52)			(57)	
Interest credited to policyholder account balances		(110)			(107)			(108)	
Less: impact of annual actuarial assumption update		(2)			(3)			— 	
Total underwriting margin(b)
$	71 			$	77 			$	102 	
 
(a)Represents spread income from GIC, PRT and structured settlement products.
(b)Represents underwriting margin from Corporate Markets products, including COLI-BOLI, private placement variable universal life insurance and private placement variable annuity products.
2023 to 2022 Comparison
See “Financial Highlights.”
Premiums and Deposits
The following table presents the Institutional Markets premiums and deposits:
Years Ended December 31,
(in millions)		2023		2022		2021
PRT		$	5,401 			$	2,749 			$	3,667 	
GICs		3,344 			1,000 			1,000 	
Other*
588 			576 			290 	
Premiums and deposits		$	9,333 			$	4,325 			$	4,957 	
 
*    Other principally consists of structured settlements, Corporate Markets and SVW product.
2023 to 2022 Comparison
Premiums and deposits increased compared to the prior year period by $5.0 billion, primarily due to higher premiums on new PRT business of $2.7 billion and higher deposits on new GICs of $2.3 billion.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 108
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations
Corporate and Other
Corporate and Other primarily consists of interest expense on financial debt, parent expenses not attributable to other segments, institutional asset management business, which includes managing assets for non-consolidated affiliates, results of our consolidated investment entities, results of our legacy insurance lines ceded to Fortitude Re and intercompany eliminations.
Corporate and Other Results
Years Ended December 31,
(in millions)		2023		2022		2021
Revenues:						
Premiums(a)
$	78 			$	82 			$	86 	
Net investment income		92 			473 			443 	
Net realized gains (losses) on real estate investments		(2)			170 			701 	
Other income		54 			121 			134 	
Total adjusted revenues		222 			846 			1,364 	
Benefits and expenses:						
Policyholder benefits		(3)			— 			— 	
Non-deferrable insurance commissions		2 			2 			3 	
General operating expenses:						
Corporate and other(a)(b)
270 			241 			220 	
Asset management(c)
69 			143 			155 	
Total general operating expenses		339 			384 			375 	
Interest expense:						
Corporate		431 			299 			57 	
Asset management and other(d)
138 			236 			229 	
Total interest expense		569 			535 			286 	
Total benefits and expenses		907 			921 			664 	
Noncontrolling interest(e)
68 			(320)			(861)	
Adjusted pre-tax operating loss before consolidation and eliminations		(617)			(395)			(161)	
Consolidations and eliminations		(8)			12 			(2)	
Adjusted pre-tax operating loss		$	(625)			$	(383)			$	(163)	
         
(a)Premiums include an expense allowance associated with Fortitude Re which is entirely offset in general and operating expenses – Corporate and Other.
(b)General and operating expenses - Corporate and Other include $143 million of expenses incurred by AIG which were not billed to Corebridge for the year ended December 31, 2021. As part of separation in 2022, these expenses are now directly incurred by Corebridge.
(c)General operating expenses – Asset management primarily represent the costs to manage the investment portfolio for affiliates that are not included in the consolidated financial statements of Corebridge.
(d)Interest expense - Asset management relates to consolidated investment entities, the VIEs, for which we are the primary beneficiary; however, creditors or beneficial interest holders of VIEs generally only have recourse to the assets and cash flows of the VIEs and do not have recourse to us except in limited circumstances when we have provided a guarantee to the VIE’s interest holders. As of December 31, 2021, the VIEs for which Corebridge previously provided guarantees have been terminated. Interest expense on consolidated investment entities was $216 million for the year ended December 31, 2021.
(e)Noncontrolling interests represent the third-party or Corebridge affiliated interest in internally managed consolidated investment vehicles and are almost entirely offset within net investment income, net realized gains (losses) and interest expense.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 109
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations
Corporate and Other Sources of Earnings
The following table presents the sources of earnings of the Corporate and Other segment. We believe providing APTOI using this view is useful for gaining an understanding of our overall results of operations and the significant drivers of our earnings:
Years Ended December 31,
(in millions)		2023		2022		2021
Corporate expenses		$	(175)			$	(160)			$	(143)	
Interest expense on financial debt		(431)			(299)			(57)	
Asset management		16 			38 			30 	
Consolidated investment entities(a)
2 			24 			19 	
Other(b)(c)
(37)			14 			(12)	
Adjusted pre-tax operating loss		$	(625)			$	(383)			$	(163)	
 
(a)     Includes $(25) million for the year ended December 31, 2021 of APTOI attributable to six transactions AIG entered into between 2012 and 2014 which securitized portfolios of certain debt securities, the majority of which were previously owned by Corebridge. During the year ended December 31, 2021, all six transactions were terminated. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
(b)     Includes $56 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 related to Corebridge’s ownership interest in Fortitude Re Bermuda, which is recorded using the measurement alternative for equity securities. Our investment in Fortitude Re Bermuda totaled $156 million and $100 million at December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, respectively.
(c)     Includes $(32) million for the year ended December 31, 2022 related to non-recurring losses associated with the unwind of internal securitizations with AIG as part of separation.
Financial Highlights
2023 to 2022 APTOI Comparison
Adjusted pre-tax operating loss increased $242 million primarily due to:
•higher interest expense on financial debt of $132 million primarily due to the issuance of senior unsecured notes, hybrid junior subordinated notes and borrowing under our Three-Year DDTL Facility in 2022 totaling $9.0 billion partially offset by the elimination of interest expense from the $8.3 billion affiliated promissory note to AIG that was repaid in 2022;
•unfavorable change from other sources of earnings of $51 million primarily due to a $56 million gain related to a change in value of our minority investment in Fortitude Re Bermuda partially offset by net investment losses from certain legacy investments in 2022; and
•lower consolidated investment entities of $22 million driven by lower income on the real estate portfolio due to gains on sales in 2022 and mark-to-market adjustments.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 110
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Investments
 
Investments
OVERVIEW
Our investment strategies are tailored to the specific business needs of each operating unit by targeting an asset allocation mix that supports estimated cash flows of our outstanding liabilities and provides diversification from asset class, sector, issuer and geographic perspectives. The primary objectives are generation of investment income, preservation of capital, liquidity management and growth of surplus. The majority of assets backing our insurance liabilities consist of fixed maturity securities, RMBS, CMBS, CLOs, other ABS and fixed maturity securities issued by government-sponsored entities and corporate entities. At December 31, 2023, for $202.8 billion of invested assets supporting our insurance operating companies, approximately 47% are in corporate debt securities. Mortgage-backed securities (“MBS”), ABS and CLOs represent 31% of our fixed income securities, and 99% are investment grade. At December 31, 2022, for $186.5 billion of invested assets supporting our insurance operating companies, approximately 48% are in corporate debt securities. MBS, ABS and CLOs represent 29% of our fixed income securities and 99% are investment grade.
See “Business—Investment Management” for further information, including current and future management of our investment portfolio.”
Key Investment Strategies
Investment strategies are assessed at the segment level and involve considerations that include local and general market and economic conditions, duration and cash flow management, risk appetite and volatility constraints, rating agency and regulatory capital considerations, tax, regulatory and legal investment limitations, and, as applicable, environmental, social and governance considerations.
Some of our key investment strategies are as follows:
•our fundamental strategy across the portfolios is to seek investments with similar characteristics to the associated insurance liabilities to the extent practicable;
•we seek to purchase investments that offer enhanced yield through illiquidity premiums, such as private placements and commercial mortgage loans, which also add portfolio diversification. These assets typically afford credit protections through covenants, ability to customize structures that meet our insurance liability needs and deeper due diligence given information access;
•we seek investments that provide diversification from assets available in local markets. To the extent we purchase these investments, we generally hedge any currency risk using derivatives, which could provide opportunities to earn higher risk-adjusted returns compared to investments in the functional currency;
•we actively manage our assets and liabilities, counterparties and duration. Our liquidity sources are held primarily in the form of cash, short-term investments and publicly traded, investment grade rated fixed maturity securities that can be readily monetized through sales or repurchase agreements. Certain of our subsidiaries are members of the FHLBs in their respective districts, and we borrow from the FHLB utilizing its funding agreement program. Borrowings from FHLBs are used to supplement liquidity or for other uses deemed appropriate by management. This strategy allows us to both diversify our sources of liquidity and reduce the cost of maintaining sufficient liquidity;
•within the United States, investments are generally split between reserve-backing and surplus portfolios:
–insurance liabilities are backed mainly by investment grade fixed maturity securities that meet our duration, risk-return, tax liquidity, credit quality and diversification objectives. We assess asset classes based on their fundamental underlying risk factors, including credit (public and private), commercial real estate and residential real estate, regardless of whether such investments are bonds, loans or structured products; and
–surplus investments seek to enhance portfolio returns and are generally comprised of a mix of fixed maturity investment grade and below investment grade securities and various alternative asset classes, including private equity, real estate equity and hedge funds. Over the past few years, hedge fund investments have been reduced;
•outside of the United States, fixed maturity securities held by our insurance companies consist primarily of investment grade securities generally denominated in the currencies of the countries in which we operate; and
•we also utilize derivatives to manage our asset and liability duration as well as currency exposures.
Asset Liability Management
Our investment strategy is to invest in assets that generate net investment income to back policyholder benefit and deposit liabilities that result in stable distributable earnings and enhance portfolio value, subject to asset-liability management, capital, liquidity and regulatory constraints.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 111
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Investments
We use asset-liability management as a primary tool to monitor and manage interest rate and duration risk in our businesses. We maintain a diversified, high to medium quality portfolio of fixed maturity securities issued by corporations, municipalities and other governmental agencies; structured securities collateralized by, among other assets, residential and commercial real estate; and commercial mortgage loans that, to the extent practicable, match the duration characteristics of the liabilities. We seek to diversify the portfolio across asset classes, sectors and issuers to mitigate idiosyncratic portfolio risks. The investment portfolio of each product line is tailored to the specific characteristics of its insurance liabilities, and as a result, duration varies between distinct portfolios. The interest rate environment has a direct impact on the asset liability management profile of the businesses, and changes in the interest rate environment may result in the need to lengthen or shorten the duration of the portfolio. In a rising rate environment, we may shorten the duration of the investment portfolio.
Fixed maturity securities of our domestic operations have an average duration of 6.9 years as of December 31, 2023.
In addition, we seek to enhance surplus portfolio returns through investments in a diversified portfolio of alternative investments. Although these alternative investments are subject to earnings fluctuations, they have historically achieved accumulative returns over time in excess of the fixed maturity portfolio returns.    
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 112
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Investments
Investment Portfolio
The following table presents carrying amounts of our total investments:
(in millions)		Excluding Fortitude Re Funds Withheld Assets		Fortitude Re Funds Withheld Assets		Total
December 31, 2023						
Bonds available-for-sale:
U.S. government and government-sponsored entities		$	946		$	274		$	1,220
Obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions		5,178		653		5,831
Non-U.S. governments		3,782		275		4,057
Corporate debt		94,118		11,964		106,082
Mortgage-backed, asset-backed and collateralized:						
RMBS		13,531		746		14,277
CMBS		9,493		488		9,981
CLO		10,938		206		11,144
ABS		13,337		598		13,935
Total mortgage-backed, asset-backed and collateralized		47,299		2,038		49,337
Total bonds available-for-sale
151,323		15,204		166,527
Other bond securities
366 			4,212		4,578
Total fixed maturities		151,689		19,416		171,105
Equity securities		63		—		63
Mortgage and other loans receivable:						
Residential mortgages		8,428		—		8,428
Commercial mortgages		30,354		3,204		33,558
Life insurance policy loans		1,416		330		1,746
Commercial loans, other loans and notes receivable		2,961		174		3,135
Total mortgage and other loans receivable(a)
43,159		3,708		46,867
Other invested assets(b)
8,163		2,094		10,257
Short-term investments		4,207		129		4,336
Total(c)
$	207,281		$	25,347		$	232,628
December 31, 2022						
Bonds available-for-sale:
U.S. government and government-sponsored entities		$	925 			$	273 			$	1,198 	
Obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions		5,195 			731 			5,926 	
Non-U.S. governments		3,977 			415 			4,392 	
Corporate debt		91,939 			12,753 			104,692 	
Mortgage-backed, asset-backed and collateralized:						
RMBS		11,122 			822 			11,944 	
CMBS		9,528 			540 			10,068 	
CLO		7,994 			192 			8,186 	
ABS		9,774 			613 			10,387 	
Total mortgage-backed, asset-backed and collateralized		38,418 			2,167 			40,585 	
Total bonds available-for-sale
140,454 			16,339 			156,793 	
Other bond securities		284 			3,485 			3,769 	
Total fixed maturities		140,738 			19,824 			160,562 	
Equity securities		170 			— 			170 	
Mortgage and other loans receivable:						
Residential mortgages		5,851 			— 			5,851 	
Commercial mortgages		29,190 			3,272 			32,462 	
Life insurance policy loans		1,395 			355 			1,750 	
Commercial loans, other loans and notes receivable		4,285 			218 			4,503 	
Total mortgage and other loans receivable(a)
40,721 			3,845 			44,566 	
Other invested assets(b)
8,392 			2,026 			10,418 	
Short-term investments		4,331 			69 			4,400 	
Total(c)
$	194,352 			$	25,764 			$	220,116 	
 
(a)    Net of total allowance for credit losses for $698 million and $600 million at December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively.
(b)    Other invested assets, excluding Fortitude Re funds withheld assets, include $5.6 billion and $5.3 billion of private equity funds as of December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively, which are generally reported on a one-quarter lag.
(c)    Includes the consolidation of approximately $5.9 billion and $9.7 billion of consolidated investment entities at December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 113
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Investments
The following table presents carrying amounts of our total investments for our insurance operating subsidiaries excluding the Fortitude Re funds withheld assets:
(in millions)		December 31, 2023		December 31, 2022
Bonds available-for-sale:
U.S. government and government-sponsored entities		$	945		$	928 	
Obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions		5,178		5,194 	
Non-U.S. governments		3,782		3,978 	
Corporate debt
Public credit
73,014		68,135 	
Private credit
21,388		20,741 	
Total corporate debt
94,402		88,876 	
Mortgage-backed, asset-backed and collateralized:				
RMBS		13,941		11,546 	
CMBS		9,493		9,527 	
CLO		10,893		8,292 	
ABS		13,337		9,775 	
Total mortgage-backed, asset-backed and collateralized		47,664		39,140 	
Total bonds available-for-sale
151,971		138,116 	
Other bond securities		329		357 	
Total fixed maturities		152,300		138,473 	
Equity securities		55		119
Mortgage and other loans receivable:				
Residential mortgages		6,869		4,181 	
Commercial mortgages		30,892		29,632 	
Commercial loans, other loans and notes receivable		3,040		4,465 	
Total mortgage and other loans receivable(a)(b)
40,801		38,278 	
Other invested assets				
Hedge funds
222		796
Private equity(c)
5,012		4,529
Real estate investments
270		266
Other invested assets - All other		290		254
Total other invested assets
5,794		5,845 	
Short-term investments		3,881		3,781 	
Total(d)
$	202,831		$	186,496 	
 
(a)    Does not reflect allowance for credit loss on mortgage loans of $623 million and $509 million at December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively.
(b)    Does not reflect policy loans of $1.4 billion and $1.4 billion at December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively.
(c)    Private equity funds are generally reported on a one-quarter lag.
(d)     Excludes approximately $5.9 billion and $9.7 billion of consolidated investment entities as well as $2.3 billion and $2.7 billion of eliminations primarily between the consolidated investment entities and the insurance operating companies at December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively.
Credit Ratings
At December 31, 2023, nearly all our fixed maturity securities were held by our U.S. entities and 93% of these securities were rated investment grade by one or more of the principal rating agencies.
Moody’s, S&P, Fitch or similar foreign rating services rate a significant portion of our foreign entities’ fixed maturity securities portfolio. Rating services are not available for some foreign-issued securities. Our Investments team, with oversight from credit risk management, closely reviews the credit quality of the foreign portfolio’s non-rated fixed maturity securities.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 114
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Investments
NAIC Designations of Fixed Maturity Securities    
The Securities Valuation Office (“SVO”) of the NAIC evaluates the investments of U.S. insurers for statutory reporting purposes and assigns fixed maturity securities to one of six categories called ‘NAIC Designations.’ In general, NAIC Designations of ‘1,’ highest quality, or ‘2,’ high quality, include fixed maturity securities considered investment grade, while NAIC Designations of ‘3’ through ‘6’ generally include fixed maturity securities referred to as below investment grade. NAIC Designations for non-agency RMBS and CMBS are calculated using third-party modeling results provided through the NAIC. These methodologies result in an improved NAIC Designation for such securities compared to the rating typically assigned by the three major rating agencies. The following tables summarize the ratings distribution of our subsidiaries’ fixed maturity security portfolio by NAIC Designation, and the distribution by composite our credit rating, which is generally based on ratings of the three major rating agencies. As of December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, 95% and 91%, respectively, of our fixed maturity security portfolio, excluding Fortitude Re funds withheld assets, were investment grade. The fixed maturity security portfolio of our insurance operating subsidiaries, excluding the Fortitude Re funds withheld assets, was 95% and 94% investment grade as of December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively. The remaining below investment grade securities that are not included in consolidated investment entities relate to middle market and high yield bank loans securities.
The following tables present the fixed maturity security portfolio categorized by NAIC Designation, at fair value:
NAIC Designation Excluding Fortitude Re Funds Withheld Assets
(in millions)
1	2	Total Investment
Grade		3	
4(a)
5(a)
6	Total Below Investment Grade		Total
December 31, 2023												
Other fixed maturity securities		$	49,628	$	46,891	$	96,519		$	4,104	$	2,983	$	389	$	58	$	7,534		$	104,053
Mortgage-backed, asset-backed
and collateralized		41,165	5,806	46,971		307	224	44 		11	586		47,557
Total(b)
$	90,793	$	52,697	$	143,490		$	4,411	$	3,207	$	433	$	69	$	8,120		$	151,610
Fortitude Re funds withheld assets												$	19,416
Total fixed maturities												$	171,026
December 31, 2022												
Other fixed maturity securities		$	44,981	$	45,166	$	90,147		$	5,058	$	5,915	$	655	$	268	$	11,896		$	102,043
Mortgage-backed, asset-backed
and collateralized		33,031	5,330	38,361		227	73	3	10	313		38,674
Total(b)
$	78,012	$	50,496	$	128,508		$	5,285	$	5,988	$	658	$	278	$	12,209		$	140,717
Fortitude Re funds withheld assets												$	19,824
Total fixed maturities												$	160,541
 
(a)Includes $63 million and $6 million of consolidated CLOs that are rated NAIC 4 and 5, respectively, as of December 31, 2023 and $2.8 billion and $142 million of NAIC 4 and 5 securities, respectively, as of December 31, 2022. These are assets of consolidated investment entities and do not represent direct investment of Corebridge’s insurance subsidiaries.
(b)Excludes $79 million and $21 million of fixed maturity securities for which no NAIC Designation is available at December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively.
The following table presents the fixed maturity security portfolio categorized by NAIC Designation, at fair value, for our insurance operating subsidiaries excluding the Fortitude Re funds withheld assets:
(in millions)		December 31, 2023		December 31, 2022
NAIC 1		$	91,207		$	78,518
NAIC 2		53,029		50,946
NAIC 3		4,408		4,860
NAIC 4		3,147		3,224
NAIC 5 and 6		496		904
Total(a)(b)
$	152,287		$	138,452
 
(a)    Excludes approximately $121 million and $3.4 billion of consolidated investment entities and $732 million and $1.2 billion of eliminations primarily related to the consolidated investment entities and the insurance operating subsidiaries at December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively.
(b)    Excludes $13 million and $21 million of fixed maturity securities for which no NAIC Designation is available at December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 115
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Investments
Composite Corebridge Credit Ratings
With respect to our fixed maturity securities, the credit ratings in the table below and in subsequent tables reflect: (i) a composite of the ratings of the three major rating agencies, or when agency ratings are not available, the rating assigned by the NAIC SVO (100% of total fixed maturity securities), or (ii) our equivalent internal ratings when these investments have not been rated by any of the major rating agencies or the NAIC. The “Non-rated” category in those tables consists of fixed maturity securities that have not been rated by any of the major rating agencies, the NAIC or us.
The following tables present the fixed maturity security portfolio categorized by composite Corebridge credit rating (as described below), at fair value:
Composite Corebridge Credit Rating Excluding Fortitude Re Funds Withheld Assets
(in millions)
AAA/AA/A		BBB		Total Investment Grade		BB		B		CCC and Lower		
Total Below Investment Grade (a)(b)
Total
December 31, 2023																
Other fixed maturity securities		$	49,833		$	46,706		$	96,539		$	4,083		$	3,014		$	417		$	7,514		$	104,053
Mortgage-backed, asset-backed
and collateralized		37,795		6,439		44,234		430		335		2,558		3,323		47,557
Total(c)
$	87,628		$	53,145		$	140,773		$	4,513		$	3,349		$	2,975		$	10,837		$	151,610
Fortitude Re funds withheld assets																$	19,416
Total fixed maturities																$	171,026
December 31, 2022																
Other fixed maturity securities		$	46,059		$	44,068		$	90,127		$	5,081		$	5,910		$	925		$	11,916		$	102,043
Mortgage-backed, asset-backed
and collateralized		29,367		5,768		35,135		336		273		2,930		3,539		38,674
Total(c)
$	75,426		$	49,836		$	125,262		$	5,417		$	6,183		$	3,855		$	15,455		$	140,717
Fortitude Re funds withheld assets																$	19,824 	
Total fixed maturities																$	160,541 	
 
(a)    Includes $2.7 billion and $3.0 billion at December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively, of certain RMBS that had experienced deterioration in credit quality since its origination but prior to Corebridge’s acquisition. These securities are currently rated as investment grade under the NAIC SVO framework.
(b)    Includes $76 million of consolidated CLOs as of December 31, 2023 and $3.4 billion as of December 31, 2022. These are assets of consolidated investment entities and do not represent direct investment of Corebridge’s insurance subsidiaries.
(c)     Excludes $79 million and $21 million of fixed maturity securities for which no NAIC Designation is available at December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively.
The following table presents the fixed maturity security portfolio categorized by composite Corebridge credit rating (as described below), at fair value for our insurance operating subsidiaries:
Composite Corebridge Credit Rating For Our Insurance Operating Subsidiaries
(in millions)
AAA/AA/A		BBB		Total Investment Grade		BB		B		CCC and Lower		
Total Below Investment Grade
Total
December 31, 2023																
Other fixed maturity securities		$	49,836		$	47,056		$	96,892		$	4,079		$	2,957		$	408		$	7,444		$	104,336
Mortgage-backed, asset-backed
and collateralized		38,204		6,422		44,626		434		338		2,553		3,325		47,951
Total fixed maturities*		$	88,040		$	53,478		$	141,518		$	4,513		$	3,295		$	2,961		$	10,769		$	152,287
December 31, 2022																
Other fixed maturity securities		$	46,060		$	44,410		$	90,470		$	4,577		$	3,236		$	700		$	8,513		$	98,983
Mortgage-backed, asset-backed
and collateralized		29,869		5,886		35,755		401		276		3,037		3,714		39,469
Total fixed maturities*		$	75,929 			$	50,296 			$	126,225 			$	4,978 			$	3,512 			$	3,737 			$	12,227 			$	138,452 	
 
*     Excludes $13 million and $21 million of fixed maturity securities for which no NAIC Designation is available at December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively.
For a discussion of credit risks associated with investments, see “Business—Investment Management—Credit Risk.”
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 116
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Investments
The following tables present the composite Corebridge credit ratings of our fixed maturity securities calculated based on their fair value: 
Available-for-Sale		Other Fixed Maturity Securities,
at Fair Value		Total
Excluding Fortitude Funds
Withheld Assets
(in millions)
December 31, 2023		December 31, 2022		December 31, 2023		December 31, 2022		December 31, 2023		December 31, 2022
Rating:												
Other fixed maturity securities*												
AAA		$	1,656		$	2,493		$	—		$	—		$	1,656		$	2,493
AA		21,970		17,600		14		16		21,984		17,616
A		26,193		25,950		—		—		26,193		25,950
BBB		46,688		44,065		18		3		46,706		44,068
Below investment grade		7,506		11,855		10		7		7,516		11,862
Non-rated		11		73		—		2		11		75
Total		$	104,024		$	102,036		$	42		$	28		$	104,066		$	102,064
Mortgage-backed, asset-												
backed and collateralized												
AAA		$	9,720		$	11,418		$	19		$	22		$	9,739		$	11,440
AA		20,577		11,737		83		90		20,660		11,827
A		7,293		6,009		103		91		7,396		6,100
BBB		6,383		5,736		56		32		6,439		5,768
Below investment grade		3,297		3,391		19		21		3,316		3,412
Non-rated		29		127		44		—		73		127
Total		$	47,299		$	38,418		$	324		$	256		$	47,623		$	38,674
Total												
AAA		$	11,376		$	13,911		$	19		$	22		$	11,395		$	13,933
AA		42,547		29,337		97		106		42,644		29,443
A		33,486		31,959		103		91		33,589		32,050
BBB		53,071		49,801		74		35		53,145		49,836
Below investment grade		10,803		15,246		29		28		10,832		15,274
Non-rated		40		200		44		2		84		202
Total		$	151,323		$	140,454		$	366		$	284		$	151,689		$	140,738
     
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 117
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Investments
Available-for-Sale		Other Fixed Maturity Securities,
at Fair Value		Total
Fortitude Re Funds
Withheld Assets (in millions)
December 31, 2023		December 31, 2022		December 31, 2023		December 31, 2022		December 31, 2023		December 31, 2022
Rating:												
Other fixed maturity securities*												
AAA		$	387		$	439		$	23 			$	22 			$	410		$	461
AA		3,603		3,272		795		706		4,398		3,978
A		3,559		4,022		158		168		3,717		4,190
BBB		5,084		5,734		1,225		935		6,309		6,669
Below investment grade		533		705		457		420		990		1,125
Non-rated		—		—		6		2		6		2
Total		$	13,166		$	14,172		$	2,664		$	2,253		$	15,830		$	16,425
Mortgage-backed, asset-
backed and collateralized												
AAA		$	141		$	222		$	117		$	88		$	258		$	310
AA		770		727		555		478		1,325		1,205
A		238		289		225		146		463		435
BBB		361		348		591		459		952		807
Below investment grade		526		581		59		60		585		641
Non-rated		2		—		1		1		3		1
Total		$	2,038		$	2,167		$	1,548		$	1,232		$	3,586		$	3,399
Total												
AAA		$	528		$	661		$	140		$	110		$	668		$	771
AA		4,373		3,999		1,350		1,184		5,723		5,183
A		3,797		4,311		383		314		4,180		4,625
BBB		5,445		6,082		1,816		1,394		7,261		7,476
Below investment grade		1,059		1,286		516		480		1,575		1,766
Non-rated		2		—		7		3		9		3
Total		$	15,204		$	16,339		$	4,212		$	3,485		$	19,416		$	19,824
 
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 118
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Investments
Available-for-Sale		Other Fixed Maturity Securities,
at Fair Value		Total
Total
(in millions)
December 31, 2023		December 31, 2022		December 31, 2023		December 31, 2022		December 31, 2023		December 31, 2022
Rating:												
Other fixed maturity securities*												
AAA		$	2,043		$	2,932		$	23		$	22 			$	2,066		$	2,954
AA		25,573		20,872		809		722		26,382		21,594
A		29,752		29,972		158		168		29,910		30,140
BBB		51,772		49,799		1,243		938		53,015		50,737
Below investment grade		8,039		12,560		467		427		8,506		12,987
Non-rated		11		73		6		4		17		77
Total		$	117,190		$	116,208		$	2,706		$	2,281		$	119,896		$	118,489
Mortgage-backed, asset-backed and collateralized												
AAA		$	9,861		$	11,640		$	136		$	110		$	9,997		$	11,750
AA		21,347		12,464		638		568		21,985		13,032
A		7,531		6,298		328		237		7,859		6,535
BBB		6,744		6,084		647		491		7,391		6,575
Below investment grade		3,823		3,972		78		81		3,901		4,053
Non-rated		31		127		45		1		76		128
Total		$	49,337		$	40,585		$	1,872		$	1,488		$	51,209		$	42,073
Total												
AAA		$	11,904		$	14,572		$	159		$	132		$	12,063		$	14,704
AA		46,920		33,336		1,447		1,290		48,367		34,626
A		37,283		36,270		486		405		37,769		36,675
BBB		58,516		55,883		1,890		1,429		60,406		57,312
Below investment grade		11,862		16,532		545		508		12,407		17,040
Non-rated		42		200		51		5		93		205
Total		$	166,527		$	156,793		$	4,578		$	3,769		$	171,105		$	160,562
 
*    Consists of assets including U.S. government and government sponsored entities, obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions, non-U.S. governments, and corporate debt.
The following table presents the fair value of our aggregate credit exposures to non-U.S. governments for our fixed maturity securities:
December 31, 2023		December 31, 2022
(in millions)		Excluding Fortitude Re Funds Withheld Assets		Fortitude Re Funds Withheld Assets		Total		Excluding Fortitude Re Funds Withheld Assets		Fortitude Re Funds Withheld Assets		Total
Chile		$	357		$	13		$	370		$	343		$	19		$	362
Indonesia		344		23		367		381		34		415
Mexico		257		13		270		239		27		266
France		229		18		247		149		17		166
United Arab Emirates		221		4		225		298		12		310
Qatar		204		61		265		218		87		305
Saudi Arabia		185		20		205		200		22		222
Norway		160		—		160		162		—		162
Colombia		155		26		181		132		25		157
Panama		145		19		164		150		29		179
Other		1,525		91		1,616		1,705		165		1,870
Total*		$	3,782		$	288		$	4,070		$	3,977		$	437		$	4,414
 
*    Includes bonds available-for-sale and other bond securities.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 119
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Investments
Investments in Corporate Debt Securities
The following table presents the industry categories of our available-for-sale corporate debt securities:
December 31, 2023		December 31, 2022
Fair Value		Fair Value
(in millions)		Excluding Fortitude Re Funds Withheld Assets		Fortitude Re Funds Withheld Assets		Total		Excluding Fortitude Re Funds Withheld Assets		Fortitude Re Funds Withheld Assets		Total
Industry Category:												
Financial institutions		$	25,875		$	2,429		$	28,304		$	23,751		$	2,699		$	26,450
Utilities		14,108		2,545		16,653		13,579		2,708		16,287
Communications		5,957		730		6,687		5,718		767		6,485
Consumer noncyclical		12,093		1,444		13,537		12,466		1,525		13,991
Capital goods		4,230		412		4,642		4,491		462		4,953
Energy		8,323		1,096		9,419		7,361		1,126		8,487
Consumer cyclical		5,114		520		5,634		6,820		581		7,401
Basic materials		3,141		350		3,491		3,285		467		3,752
Other		15,277		2,438		17,715		14,468		2,418		16,886
Total*		$	94,118		$	11,964		$	106,082		$	91,939		$	12,753		$	104,692
 
*    93% and 89% of investments were rated investment grade at December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively.
Our investments in the energy category, as a percentage of total investments in available-for-sale fixed maturities, were 9% and 8% at December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively. While the energy investments are primarily investment grade and are actively managed, the category continues to experience volatility that could adversely affect credit quality and fair value.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 120
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Investments
Investments in RMBS
The following table presents our RMBS available-for-sale securities:
December 31, 2023		December 31, 2022
(in millions)		Fair Value		Percent of Total		Fair Value		Percent of Total
Agency RMBS		$	4,218		31%		$	4,478		40%
AAA		20				4,345		
AA		4,198				133		
A		—				—		
BBB		—				—		
Below investment grade		—				—		
Non-rated		—				—		
Alt-A RMBS		3,147		23%		2,641		24%
AAA		692				24		
AA		685				689		
A		38				35		
BBB		54				41		
Below investment grade		1,678				1,852		
Non-rated		—				—		
Sub-prime RMBS		1,124		8%		1,217		11%
AAA		—				—		
AA		78				68		
A		60				65		
BBB		50				51		
Below investment grade		936				1,033		
Non-rated		—				—		
Prime non-agency		2,399		18%		1,471		13%
AAA		1,163				331		
AA		847				803		
A		198				136		
BBB		76				57		
Below investment grade		113				144		
Non-rated		2				—		
Other housing related		2,643		20%		1,315		12%
AAA		1,822				795		
AA		465				230		
A		246				206		
BBB		93				77		
Below investment grade		13				6		
Non-rated		4				1		
Total RMBS excluding Fortitude Re funds withheld assets		13,531		100 	%		11,122		100%
Total RMBS Fortitude Re funds withheld assets		746				822		
Total RMBS(a)(b)
$	14,277				$	11,944		
 
(a)    Includes $2.7 billion and $3.0 billion at December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively, of certain RMBS that had experienced deterioration in credit quality since their origination but prior to Corebridge’s acquisition. These securities are currently rated as investment grade under the NAIC SVO framework.
(b)    The weighted average expected life was 7 years at December 31, 2023 and 6 years at December 31, 2022.
Our underwriting principles for investing in RMBS, other ABS and CLOs take into consideration the quality of the originator, the manager, the servicer, security credit ratings, underlying characteristics of the mortgages, borrower characteristics and the level of credit enhancement in the transaction.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 121
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Investments
Investments in CMBS
The following table presents our CMBS available-for-sale securities:
December 31, 2023		December 31, 2022
(in millions)		Fair Value		Percent of Total		Fair Value		Percent of Total
CMBS (traditional)		$	8,265		87 	%		$	8,085		85 	%
AAA		3,691				3,875		
AA		2,855				2,642		
A		753				732		
BBB		621				564		
Below investment grade		345				272		
Non-rated		—				—		
Agency		815		9 	%		1,017		11 	%
AAA		3				484		
AA		812				525		
A		—				—		
BBB		—				8		
Below investment grade		—				—		
Non-rated		—				—		
Other		413		4 	%		426		4 	%
AAA		91				105		
AA		130				131		
A		100				97		
BBB		92				93		
Below investment grade		—				—		
Non-rated		—				—		
Total excluding Fortitude Re funds withheld assets		9,493		100 	%		9,528		100 	%
Total Fortitude Re funds withheld assets		488				540		
Total		$	9,981				$	10,068		
 
The fair value of CMBS holdings decreased slightly during the year ended December 31, 2023. The majority of our investments in CMBS are in tranches that contain substantial protection features through collateral subordination. The majority of CMBS holdings are traditional conduit transactions, broadly diversified across property types and geographical areas.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 122
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Investments
Investments in ABS/CLOs
The following table presents our ABS/CLO available-for-sale securities by collateral type:
December 31, 2023		December 31, 2022
(dollars in millions)		Fair Value		Percent of Total		Fair Value		Percent of Total
CDO - bank loan (CLO)		$	10,808		44 	%		$	7,893		44 	%
AAA		1,741				1,056		
AA		5,246				4,049		
A		3,058				2,384		
BBB		727				400		
Below investment grade		13				4		
Non-rated		23				—		
CDO - other		130		1 	%		100		1 	%
AAA		1				—		
AA		125				100		
A		— 					—		
BBB		1 					—		
Below investment grade		3 					—		
Non-rated		—				—		
ABS		13,337		55 	%		9,775		55 	%
AAA		496				403		
AA		5,136				2,367		
A		2,840				2,354		
BBB		4,669				4,445		
Below investment grade		196				80		
Non-rated		—				126		
Total excluding Fortitude Re funds withheld assets		24,275		100 	%		17,768		100 	%
Total Fortitude Re funds withheld assets		804				805		
Total		$	25,079				$	18,573		
 
Unrealized Losses of Fixed Maturity Securities
The following tables show the aging of the unrealized losses on available-for-sale fixed maturity securities, the extent to which the fair value is less than amortized cost or cost, and the number of respective items in each category:
December 31, 2023		
Less Than or Equal to
20% of Cost(b)
Greater Than 20% to
50% of Cost(b)
Greater Than
50% of Cost(b)
Total
Aging(a)
(dollars in millions)
Cost(c)
Unrealized Loss	
Items(d)
Cost(c)
Unrealized Loss	
Items(d)
Cost(c)
Unrealized Loss	
Items(d)
Cost(c)
Unrealized Loss
Items(d)
Investment grade bonds																
0-6 months		$	8,072 		$	358 		964 			$	2,687 		$	779 		209 			$	6 		$	3 		— 			$	10,765 		$	1,140 		1,173 	
7-11 months		9,583 		490 		880 			2,176 		628 		178 			4 		2 		— 			11,763 		1,120 		1,058 	
12 months or more		74,309 		6,603 		7,899 			28,479 		7,968 		2,391 			79 		42 		10 			102,867 		14,613 		10,300 	
Total		91,964 		7,451 		9,743 			33,342 		9,375 		2,778 			89 		47 		10 			125,395 		16,873 		12,531 	
Below investment grade bonds																
0-6 months		1,635 		64 		449 			110 		40 		41 			8 		7 		8 			1,753 		111 		498 	
7-11 months		497 		18 		98 			47 		13 		4 			1 		1 		2 			545 		32 		104 	
12 months or more		5,127 		325 		1,066 			606 		177 		104 			39 		25 		8 			5,772 		527 		1,178 	
Total		7,259 		407 		1,613 			763 		230 		149 			48 		33 		18 			8,070 		670 		1,780 	
Total bonds																
0-6 months		9,707 		422 		1,413 			2,797 		819 		250 			14 		10 		8 			12,518 		1,251 		1,671 	
7-11 months		10,080 		508 		978 			2,223 		641 		182 			5 		3 		2 			12,308 		1,152 		1,162 	
12 months or more		79,436 		6,928 		8,965 			29,085 		8,145 		2,495 			118 		67 		18 			108,639 		15,140 		11,478 	
Total excluding Fortitude Re funds withheld assets		$	99,223 		$	7,858 		11,356 			$	34,105 		$	9,605 		2,927 			$	137 		$	80 		28 			$	133,465 		$	17,543 		14,311 	
Total Fortitude Re funds withheld assets														$	16,725 		$	2,934 		891 	
Total														$	150,190 		$	20,477 		15,202 	
 
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 123
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Investments
December 31, 2022		
Less Than or Equal to
20% of Cost(b)
Greater than 20% to
50% of Cost(b)
Greater than
50% of Cost(b)
Total
Aging(a)
(dollars in millions)
Cost(c)
Unrealized Loss
Items(d)
Cost(c)
Unrealized Loss
Items(d)
Cost(c)
Unrealized Loss
Items(d)
Cost(c)
Unrealized Loss
Items(d)
Investment grade bonds																
0-6 months		$	58,919 		$	5,036 		6,736 			$	30,974 		$	9,161 		2,999 			$	447 		$	238 		25 			$	90,340 		$	14,435 		9,760 	
7-11 months		22,018 		2,112 		2,197 			3,126 		836 		159 			21 		13 		1 			25,165 		2,961 		2,357 	
12 months or more		7,759 		942 		716 			9,398 		2,667 		690 			20 		11 		3 			17,177 		3,620 		1,409 	
Total		88,696 		8,090 		9,649 			43,498 		12,664 		3,848 			488 		262 		29 			132,682 		21,016 		13,526 	
Below Investment grade bonds																
0-6 months		5,310 		354 		1,492 			823 		235 		222 			39 		28 		17 			6,172 		617 		1,731 	
7-11 months		3,544 		182 		1,201 			95 		24 		51 			7 		5 		7 			3,646 		211 		1,259 	
12 months or more		3,395 		225 		1,017 			321 		87 		73 			9 		8 		9 			3,725 		320 		1,099 	
Total		12,249 		761 		3,710 			1,239 		346 		346 			55 		41 		33 			13,543 		1,148 		4,089 	
Total bonds																
0-6 months		64,229 		5,390 		8,228 			31,797 		9,396 		3,221 			486 		266 		42 			96,512 		15,052 		11,491 	
7-11 months		25,562 		2,294 		3,398 			3,221 		860 		210 			28 		18 		8 			28,811 		3,172 		3,616 	
12 months or more		11,154 		1,167 		1,733 			9,719 		2,754 		763 			29 		19 		12 			20,902 		3,940 		2,508 	
Total excluding Fortitude Re funds withheld assets		$	100,945 		$	8,851 		13,359 			$	44,737 		$	13,010 		4,194 			$	543 		$	303 		62 			$	146,225 		$	22,164 		17,615 	
Total Fortitude Re funds withheld assets														$	18,296 		$	3,593 		1,057 	
Total														$	164,521 		$	25,757 		18,672 	
 
(a)Represents the number of consecutive months that fair value has been less than amortized cost or cost by any amount.
(b)Represents the percentage by which fair value is less than amortized cost or cost at December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022.
(c)For bonds, represents amortized cost net of allowance.
(d)Item count is by CUSIP by subsidiary.
The allowance for credit losses was $7 million and $7 million for investment grade bonds, and $121 million and $141 million for below investment grade bonds as of December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively.
Change in Unrealized Gains and Losses on Investments
The change in net unrealized gains and losses on investments for the year ended December 31, 2023, was primarily attributable to increase in the fair value of fixed maturity securities. For the year ended December 31, 2023, net unrealized gains were $6.1 billion primarily due to narrowing of credit spreads.
The change in net unrealized gains and losses on investments for the year ended December 31, 2022 was primarily attributable to decreases in the fair value of fixed maturity securities. For the year ended December 31, 2022, net unrealized losses were $40.4 billion due to an increase in interest rates and spreads.
For further discussion of our investment portfolio, see Notes 5 and 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.    
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 124
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Investments
Commercial Mortgage Loans
At December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, we had direct commercial mortgage loan exposure of $34.2 billion and $33.0 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, we had an allowance for credit losses of $614 million and $531 million, respectively.
The following tables present the commercial mortgage loan exposure by location and class of loan based on amortized cost:
Number of Loans	Class	Total		Percent of Total
Excluding Fortitude Re Funds Withheld Assets (dollars in millions)		Apartments		Offices		Retail		Industrial		Hotel		Others	
December 31, 2023																	
State:																	
New York	69		$	1,301		$	3,577		$	276		$	392		$	70		$	1 			$	5,617		18 	%
California	57		665		837		102		1,153		579		12		3,348		11 	%
New Jersey	73		2,012		73		256		650		—		21		3,012		10 	%
Texas	38		760		609		131		221		18		—		1,739		6 	%
Florida	44		632		107		361		97		455		—		1,652		5 	%
Massachusetts	19		550		567		492		15		—		—		1,624		5 	%
Illinois	20		503		353		3		39		—		20		918		3 	%
Colorado	15		285		61		87		70		157		—		660		2 	%
Pennsylvania	19		128		94		206		188		23		—		639		2 	%
Ohio	19		78		6		80		407		—		—		571		2 	%
Other States	105		2,273		221		505		699		144		47		3,889		13 	%
Foreign	72		3,479		1,069		728		1,432		291		224		7,223		23 	%
Total(a)
550		$	12,666		$	7,574		$	3,227		$	5,363		$	1,737		$	325		$	30,892		100 	%
Fortitude Re funds
   withheld assets															$	3,280		
Total Commercial Mortgages															$	34,172		
December 31, 2022					
State:																	
New York	72		$	1,355		$	3,820		$	282		$	357		$	71		$	— 			$	5,885		20 	%
California	51		507		653		112		1,129		611		13		3,025		10 	%
New Jersey	59		1,829		143		322		436		7		22		2,759		9 	%
Texas	41		692		687		137		155		143		—		1,814		6 	%
Florida	51		344		119		212		151		355		—		1,181		4 	%
Massachusetts	16		465		328		470		15		—		—		1,278		4 	%
Illinois	20		487		353		3		41		—		20		904		3 	%
Colorado	12		261		63		—		—		145		—		469		2 	%
Pennsylvania	16		77		94		189		190		24		—		574		2 	%
Ohio	19		80		7		83		408		—		—		578		1 	%
Other States	108		1,827		270		550		652		121		19		3,439		12 	%
Foreign	90		4,212		1,423		327		1,264		284		216		7,726		27 	%
Total(a)
555		$	12,136		$	7,960		$	2,687		$	4,798		$	1,761		$	290		$	29,632		100 	%
Fortitude Re funds
   withheld assets															$	3,361		
Total Commercial Mortgages															$	32,993		
 
(a)     Does not reflect allowance for credit losses.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 125
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Investments
The following tables present debt service coverage ratios and loan-to-value ratios for commercial mortgages:
Debt Service Coverage Ratios(a)
(in millions)		>1.20X		1.00X - 1.20X		<1.00X		Total
December 31, 2023								
Loan-to-value ratios(b)
Less than 65%		$	17,301		$	3,141		$	285		$	20,727
65% to 75%		5,577		1,337		44		6,958
76% to 80%		938		64		47		1,049
Greater than 80%		1,349		402		407		2,158
Total commercial mortgages excluding Fortitude Re(c)
$	25,165		$	4,944		$	783		$	30,892
Total commercial mortgages including Fortitude Re								$	3,280
Total commercial mortgages								$	34,172
December 31, 2022		
Loan-to-value ratios(b)
Less than 65%		$	18,524		$	2,817		$	628		$	21,969
65% to 75%		4,497		429		435		5,361
76% to 80%		314		—		46		360
Greater than 80%		1,338		154		450		1,942
Total commercial mortgages excluding Fortitude Re(c)
$	24,673		$	3,400		$	1,559		$	29,632
Total commercial mortgages including Fortitude Re								$	3,361
Total commercial mortgages								$	32,993
 
(a)The debt service coverage ratio compares a property’s net operating income to its debt service payments, including principal and interest. Our weighted average debt service coverage ratio was 1.9X and 1.9X at December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively. The debt service coverage ratios have been updated within the last three months.
(b)The loan-to-value ratio compares the current unpaid principal balance of the loan to the estimated fair value of the underlying property collateralizing the loan. Our weighted average loan-to-value ratio was 59% and 59% at December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively. The loan-to-value ratios have been updated within the last three to nine months.
(c)Does not reflect allowance for credit losses.
Residential Mortgage Loans
At December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, we had direct residential mortgage loan exposure of $8.4 billion and $5.9 billion, respectively.
The following tables present credit quality performance indicators for residential mortgages by year of vintage:
December 31, 2023														
(in millions)		2023		2022		2021		2020		2019		Prior		Total
FICO:(a)
780 and greater		$	514		$	528		$	2,280		$	619		$	239		$	497		$	4,677
720 - 779		1,121		608		558		168		99		209		2,763
660 - 719		313		256		113		40		37		120		879
600 - 659		2		20		11		8		9		51		101
Less than 600		—		—		2		2		4		17		25
Total residential mortgages(b)(c)
$	1,950		$	1,412		$	2,964		$	837		$	388		$	894		$	8,445
 
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 126
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Investments
December 31, 2022														
(in millions)		2022		2021		2020		2019		2018		Prior		Total
FICO:(a)
780 and greater		$	294		$	2,141		$	652		$	229		$	76		$	437		$	3,829
720 - 779		536		711		167		75		32		134		1,655
660 - 719		163		79		28		16		9		47		342
600 - 659		2		4		2		1		2		13		24
Less than 600		—		—		—		1		—		5		6
Total residential mortgages(b)(c)
$	995		$	2,935		$	849		$	322		$	119		$	636		$	5,856
 
(a)Fair Isaac Corporation (“FICO”) is the credit quality indicator used to evaluate consumer credit risk for residential mortgage loan borrowers and have been updated within the last three months.
(b)There are no residential mortgage loans under Fortitude Re funds withheld assets.
(c)Does not include allowance for credit losses.
For additional discussion on commercial mortgage loans, see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
For additional discussion on credit losses, see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Net Realized Gains and Losses
Years Ended December 31,		2023		2022		2021
(in millions)		Excluding Fortitude
Re Funds
Withheld
Assets		Fortitude
Re Funds
Withheld
Assets		Total		Excluding
Fortitude
Re Funds
Withheld
Assets		Fortitude
Re Funds
Withheld
Assets		Total		Excluding
Fortitude
Re Funds
Withheld
Assets		Fortitude
Re Funds
Withheld
Assets		Total
Sales of fixed maturity securities		$	(278)			$	(73)			$	(351)			$	(325)			$	(232)			$	(557)			$	103 			$	647 			$	750 	
Change in allowance for credit losses on fixed maturity securities		(162)			(9)			(171)			(115)			(31)			(146)			8 			3 			11 	
Change in allowance for credit losses on loans		(138)			(66)			(204)			(76)			(44)			(120)			133 			8 			141 	
Foreign exchange transactions, net of related hedges		(195)			(10)			(205)			695 			61 			756 			310 			20 			330 	
Index-linked interest credited embedded derivatives, net of related hedges		(776)			— 			(776)			(117)			— 			(117)			(3)			— 			(3)	
All other derivatives and hedge accounting*		(53)			(66)			(119)			(43)			(181)			(224)			(6)			9 			3 	
Sales of alternative investments and real estate investments		50 			(2)			48 			179 			43 			222 			794 			237 			1,031 	
Other
(62)			2 			(60)			(57)			(13)			(70)			176 			— 			176 	
Net realized gains (losses) – excluding Fortitude Re funds withheld embedded derivative		(1,614)			(224)			(1,838)			141 			(397)			(256)			1,515 			924 			2,439 	
Net realized gains (losses) on Fortitude Re funds withheld embedded derivative		— 			(1,734)			(1,734)			— 			6,347 			6,347 			— 			(687)			(687)	
Net realized gains (losses)		$	(1,614)			$	(1,958)			$	(3,572)			$	141 			$	5,950 			$	6,091 			$	1,515 			$	237 			$	1,752 	
 
*    Derivative activity related to hedging MRBs is recorded in Change in the fair value of MRBs, net. For additional disclosures about MRBs, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Net realized losses excluding Fortitude Re funds withheld assets in the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to Net realized gains excluding Fortitude Re withheld assets in the year ended December 31, 2022 were due primarily to lower derivative gains in the current year compared to the prior year. Lower Net realized gains excluding Fortitude Re funds withheld assets in the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 were primarily due to losses on sales of securities versus gains in 2021.
Index-linked interest credited embedded derivatives, net of related hedges, reflected higher losses in the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022 and higher losses in the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. Fair value gains or losses in the hedging portfolio are typically not fully offset by increases or decreases in liabilities due to the non-performance or ‘‘own credit’’ risk adjustment used in the valuation of the index-linked interest credited embedded derivatives, which are not hedged as part of our economic hedging program and other risk margins used for valuation that caused the embedded derivatives to be less sensitive to changes in market rates than hedge portfolio.
Net realized gains (losses) on Fortitude Re funds withheld assets primarily reflect changes in the valuation of the modified coinsurance and funds withheld assets. Increases in the valuation of these assets result in losses to Corebridge as the appreciation on the assets must under those reinsurance arrangements be transferred to Fortitude Re. Decreases in valuation of the assets result in gains to Corebridge as the depreciation on the assets under those reinsurance agreements must be transferred to Fortitude Re.
For further discussion of our investment portfolio, see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 127
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Investments
Other Invested Assets
We seek to enhance returns through investment in a diversified portfolio of alternative asset classes, including private equity, real estate equity and hedge funds.
The following table presents the carrying value of our other invested assets by type:
December 31, 2023		December 31, 2022
(in millions)		Excluding Fortitude Re Funds Withheld Assets	Fortitude Re Funds Withheld Assets	Total		Excluding Fortitude Re Funds Withheld Assets	Fortitude Re Funds Withheld Assets	Total
Alternative investments(a)(b)
$	5,780	$	1,910	$	7,690		$	6,121	$	1,893	$	8,014
Investment real estate(c)
1,748	184	1,932		1,698	133	1,831
All other investments(d)
635	—	635		573	—	573
Total		$	8,163	$	2,094	$	10,257		$	8,392	$	2,026	$	10,418
 
(a)At December 31, 2023, included hedge funds of $299 million and private equity funds of $7.4 billion. At December 31, 2022, included hedge funds of $884 million and private equity funds of $7.1 billion.
(b)The majority of our hedge fund investments are redeemable upon a single month or quarter’s notice, though redemption terms vary from single, immediate withdrawals, to withdrawals staggered up to eight quarters. Some of the portfolio consists of illiquid run-off or “side-pocket” positions whose liquidation horizons are uncertain and likely beyond a year after submission of the redemption notice.
(c)Net of accumulated depreciation of $680 million and $616 million as of December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively.
(d)Includes Corebridge’s ownership interest in Fortitude Re Bermuda, which is recorded using the measurement alternative for equity securities. Our investment in Fortitude Re Bermuda totaled $156 million and $156 million at December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively.
Derivatives and Hedge Accounting
We use derivatives and other financial instruments as part of our financial risk management programs and as part of our investment operations. Interest rate derivatives (such as interest rate swaps) are used to manage interest rate risk associated with both embedded derivatives and MRBs contained in insurance contract liabilities and fixed maturity securities as well as other interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities. Foreign exchange derivatives (principally foreign exchange forwards and swaps) are used to economically mitigate risk associated with foreign denominated investments, net capital exposures and foreign currency transactions. Equity derivatives are used to mitigate financial risk embedded in certain insurance liabilities and economically hedge certain investments. We use credit derivatives to manage our credit exposures. The derivatives are effective economic hedges of the exposures that they are meant to offset. In addition to hedging activities, we also enter into derivative instruments with respect to investment operations, which may include, among other things, credit default swaps (“CDS”) and purchases of investments with embedded derivatives, such as equity linked notes and convertible bonds.
We designated certain derivatives entered into with related parties as fair value hedges of available-for-sale investment securities held by our insurance subsidiaries. The fair value hedges include foreign currency forwards and cross-currency swaps designated as hedges of the change in fair value of foreign currency denominated available-for-sale securities attributable to changes in foreign exchange rates. We also designated certain interest rate swaps entered into with both third parties and related parties as fair value hedges of fixed rate GICs and commercial mortgage loans attributable to changes in benchmark interest rates.
Credit risk associated with derivative counterparties exists for a derivative contract when that contract has a positive fair value to us. The maximum potential exposure may increase or decrease during the life of the derivative commitments as a function of maturity and market conditions. All derivative transactions must be transacted within counterparty limits.
We utilize various credit enhancements, including guarantees, collateral, credit triggers and margin agreements, to reduce the credit risk related to outstanding financial derivative transactions. We require credit enhancements in connection with specific transactions based on, among other things, the creditworthiness of the counterparties and the transaction size and maturity. Furthermore, we enter into certain agreements that have the benefit of set-off and close-out netting provisions, such as ISDA Master Agreements. These provisions provide that, in the case of an early termination of a transaction, we can set off receivables from a counterparty against payables to the same counterparty arising out of all covered transactions. As a result, where a legally enforceable netting agreement exists, the fair value of the transaction with the counterparty represents the net sum of estimated fair values.
For additional information on embedded derivatives, see Notes 5 and 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 128
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Investments
The following table presents the notional amounts of our derivatives and the fair value of derivative assets and liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets:
December 31, 2023		December 31, 2022
Gross Derivative Assets		Gross Derivative Liabilities		Gross Derivative Assets		Gross Derivative Liabilities
(in millions)		Notional Amount	Fair Value		Notional Amount	Fair Value		Notional Amount	Fair Value		Notional Amount	Fair Value
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments(a)
Interest rate contracts		$	2,213	$	238		$	833	$	18		$	155	$	202		$	1,798	$	77
Foreign exchange contracts		2,765	336		4,670	159		3,166	523		3,095	162
Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments(a)
Interest rate contracts		41,056	2,709		41,225	3,260		23,916	481		16,263	1,859
Foreign exchange contracts		6,229	584		7,523	379		4,357	643		6,126	428
Equity contracts		76,561	2,017		14,144	745		26,041	417		9,962	27
Credit contracts		305	8		5	—		—	—		—	—
Other contracts(b)
44,640	13		47	2		47,128	15		48	—
Total derivatives, excluding Fortitude Re funds withheld		$	173,769 		$	5,905 			$	68,447 		$	4,563 			$	104,763 		$	2,281 			$	37,292 		$	2,553 	
Total derivatives, Fortitude Re funds withheld		$	184	$	20		$	514	$	25		$	4,382	$	971		$	6,096	$	782
Total derivatives, gross		$	173,953	$	5,925		$	68,961	$	4,588		$	109,145	$	3,252		$	43,388	$	3,335
Counterparty netting(c)
(3,646)				(3,646)				(2,547)				(2,547)	
Cash collateral(d)
(1,886)				(801)				(406)				(691)	
Total derivatives on Consolidated Balance Sheets(e)
$	393			$	141			$	299			$	97
 
(a)Fair value amounts are shown before the effects of counterparty netting adjustments and offsetting cash collateral.
(b)Consists primarily of SVWs and contracts with multiple underlying exposures.
(c)Represents netting of derivative exposures covered by a qualifying master netting agreement.
(d)Represents cash collateral posted and received that is eligible for netting.
(e)Freestanding derivatives only, excludes embedded derivatives. Derivative instrument assets and liabilities are recorded in Other assets and Other liabilities, respectively. Fair value of assets related to bifurcated embedded derivatives was zero at both December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022. Fair value of liabilities related to bifurcated embedded derivatives was $10.2 billion and $6.7 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022. A bifurcated embedded derivative is generally presented with the host contract in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Embedded derivatives are primarily related to guarantee features in fixed index annuities and index universal life contracts, which include equity and interest rate components and the funds withheld arrangement with Fortitude Re. For additional information, see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
For additional information, see Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 129
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Future Policy Benefits, Policyholder Contract Deposits and Market Risk Benefit
 
Future Policy Benefits, Policyholder Contract Deposits and Market Risk Benefits
SIGNIFICANT REINSURANCE AGREEMENTS, VARIABLE ANNUITY GUARANTEED BENEFITS AND HEDGING RESULTS AND ACTUARIAL UPDATES
The following section provides discussion of our significant reinsurance agreements, variable annuity guaranteed benefits and hedging results and actuarial updates regarding our business segments.
Significant Reinsurance Agreements
In the first quarter of 2018, AIG entered into a series of reinsurance transactions with Fortitude Re related to certain run-off operations (i.e., non-core insurance lines for which policies are still in force until they lapse or otherwise terminate but new policies are no longer issued). As of December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, approximately $26.8 billion and $26.8 billion, respectively, of liabilities from our run-off lines (i.e., certain annuities written prior to April 2013, along with exposures to whole life, LTC and exited accident and health product lines) related to business written by multiple wholly-owned AIG subsidiaries had been ceded to Fortitude Re under these reinsurance transactions. We currently own a less than 3% indirect interest in Fortitude Re.
Refer to “Significant Factors Impacting our Results” for additional information on the Fortitude Re reinsurance agreements.
Effective July 1, 2016, AGL entered into an agreement to cede approximately $5 billion of statutory reserves for certain whole life policies to an unaffiliated reinsurer. Effective December 31, 2016, AGL recaptured term and universal life reserves of $16 billion from AGC, subject to the NAIC’s Model Regulation “Valuation of Life Insurance Policies” (“Regulation XXX”) and NAIC Actuarial Guideline 38 (“Guideline AXXX”) and ceded approximately $14 billion of such statutory reserves to the same unaffiliated reinsurer under an amendment to the July 1, 2016 agreement. Effective March 31, 2023, AGL recaptured term life reserves of $1 billion issued from 2017 to 2019 from AGC subject to Regulation XXX and ceded approximately $2 billion of such statutory reserves to the same unaffiliated reinsurer under an amendment to the July 1, 2016 agreement. Effective September 30, 2023, AGL recaptured universal life reserves of $1 billion issued from 2017 to 2019 from AGC subject to Guideline AXXX and ceded approximately $2 billion of such statutory reserves to the same unaffiliated reinsurer under an amendment to the July 1, 2016 agreement.
For a summary of significant reinsurers, see “Accounting Policies and Pronouncements—Critical Accounting Estimates—Reinsurance Recoverable.”
For a summary of statutory permitted practices, see Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Variable Annuity Guaranteed Benefits and Hedging Results
Our Individual Retirement and Group Retirement businesses offer variable annuity products with riders that provide guaranteed benefits. The liabilities are accounted for as MRBs and measured at fair value. The fair value of the MRBs may fluctuate significantly based on market interest rates, equity prices, credit spreads, market volatility, policyholder behavior and other factors.
In addition to risk-mitigating features in our variable annuity product design, we have an economic hedging program designed to manage market risk from GMWBs, including exposures to changes in interest rates, equity prices, credit spreads and volatility. The hedging program includes all in-force GMWB policies and utilizes derivative instruments, including but not limited to equity options, futures contracts and interest rate swap and option contracts, as well as fixed maturity securities.
For additional discussion of market risk management related to these product features, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.”
Differences in Valuation of MRBs and Economic Hedge Target
Our variable annuity hedging program utilizes an economic hedge target, which represents an estimate of the underlying economic risks in our GMWB riders. The economic hedge target differs from the GAAP valuation of the MRBs, creating volatility in our net income (loss) primarily due to the following:
•the MRBs include both the GMWB riders and the GMDB riders while the hedge program is targeting the economic risks of just the GMWB rider;
•the hedge program is designed to offset moves in the GMWB economic liability and therefore has a lower sensitivity to equity market changes than the MRBs;
•the economic hedge target includes 100% of the GMWB rider fees in present value calculations;
•the GAAP valuation reflects those fees attributed to the MRBs such that the initial value at contract issue equals zero. Since the MRB includes GMWBs and GMDBs these attributed fees are typically larger than just the GMWB rider fees;
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 130
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Future Policy Benefits, Policyholder Contract Deposits and Market Risk Benefit
•the economic hedge target uses best estimate actuarial assumptions and excludes explicit risk margins used for GAAP valuation, such as margins for policyholder behavior, mortality and volatility; and
•the economic hedge target excludes our own credit risk changes (NPAs) used in the GAAP valuation, which are recognized in OCI. The GAAP valuation has different sensitivities to movements in interest rates and other market factors, and to changes from actuarial assumption updates, than the economic hedge target.
For additional information on our valuation methodology for MRBs, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The market value of the hedge portfolio compared to the economic hedge target at any point in time may be different and is not expected to be fully offsetting. In addition to the derivatives held in conjunction with the variable annuity hedging program, we generally have cash and invested assets available to cover future claims payable under these guarantees. The primary sources of difference between the change in the fair value of the hedging portfolio and the economic hedge target include:
•basis risk due to the variance between expected and actual fund returns, which may be either positive or negative;
•realized volatility versus implied volatility;
•actual versus expected changes in the hedge target driven by assumptions not subject to hedging, particularly policyholder behavior; and
•risk exposures that we have elected not to explicitly or fully hedge.
The following table presents a reconciliation between the fair value of the GAAP MRBs and the value of our economic hedge target:
December 31,		December 31,
(in millions)		2023		2022
Reconciliation of market risk benefits and economic hedge target:				
Market risk benefits liability, net		$	1,340 			$	1,657
Exclude NPA
(826)			(479)	
Market risk benefits liability, excluding NPA		514 			1,178 	
Adjustments for risk margins and differences in valuation		522 			(281)	
Economic hedge target liability		$	1,036 			$	897 	
 
Impact on Pre-tax Income (Loss)
The impact on our pre-tax income (loss) of variable annuity guaranteed benefits and related hedging results includes changes in the fair value of MRBs and changes in the fair value of related derivative hedging instruments, and along with attributed rider fees and net of benefits associated with MRBs are together recognized in Change in the fair value of market risk benefits, net, with the exception of NPA changes, which are recognized in OCI. Changes in the fair value of market risk benefits, net are excluded from APTOI of Individual Retirement and Group Retirement.
The change in the fair value of the MRBs and the change in the value of the hedging portfolio are not expected to be fully offsetting, primarily due to the differences in valuation between the economic hedge target, the GAAP MRBs and the fair value of the hedging portfolio, as discussed above. When corporate credit spreads widen, the change in the NPA spread generally reduces the fair value of the MRBs liabilities, resulting in a gain in AOCI, and when corporate credit spreads tighten, the change in the NPA spread generally increases the fair value of the MRBs liabilities, resulting in a loss in AOCI. In addition to changes driven by credit market-related movements in the NPA spread, the NPA balance also reflects changes in business activity and in the net amount at risk from the underlying guaranteed living benefits.
Change in Economic Hedge Target
The increase in the economic hedge target liability in the year ended December 31, 2023, was primarily driven by higher equity markets partially offset by aging of the business and tightening credit spreads. The decrease in the economic hedge target liability in 2022 was primarily driven by higher interest rates and widening credit spreads, offset by lower equity markets.
Update of Actuarial Assumptions and Models
Our life insurance companies review and update actuarial assumptions at least annually, generally in the third quarter.
Investment-oriented products
We review and update assumptions used to value our universal life product with secondary guarantees at least annually. These benefit reserves are also adjusted to reflect the changes in the fair value of available-for-sale securities with an offset to OCI. DAC and related items (which may include VOBA, DSI and unearned revenue reserves) are amortized on a constant level basis.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 131
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Future Policy Benefits, Policyholder Contract Deposits and Market Risk Benefit
We also review assumptions related to variable annuities, fixed annuities, and fixed index annuities guaranteed benefits that are accounted for as MRBs or embedded derivatives and measured at fair value. The fair value of these MRBs or embedded derivatives is based on actuarial assumptions, including policyholder behavior, as well as capital market assumptions.
Traditional long-duration products
For traditional long-duration products discussed below, which includes whole life insurance, term life insurance, accident and health insurance, PRT, and life-contingent single premium immediate annuities and structured settlements, cash flow assumptions are reviewed at least annually to determine any changes in the liability for future policy benefits. DAC and related items (which may include VOBA) are amortized on a constant level basis.
The net impacts to pre-tax income and APTOI because of the update of actuarial assumptions for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021 are shown in the following tables.
The following table presents the increase in pre-tax income resulting from the annual update of actuarial assumptions, by line item as reported in Results of Operations:
Years Ended December 31,
(in millions)		2023		2022		2021
Premiums		$	— 			$	— 			$	(41)	
Policyholder benefits		22		29		89
Increase in adjusted pre-tax operating income		22		29		48
Change in the fair value of market risk benefits, net		7		105		(17)
Net realized losses		(7)		(2)		—
Increase in pre-tax income		$	22 			$	132 			$	31 	
 
The following table presents the increase in adjusted pre-tax operating income resulting from the annual update of actuarial assumptions, by segment and product line:
Years Ended December 31,
(in millions)		2023		2022		2021
Individual Retirement		$	1		$	—		$	— 	
Life Insurance		19		25		48
Institutional Markets		2		4		—
Total increase in adjusted pre-tax operating income from the update of assumptions*		$	22 			$	29 			$	48 	
 
*Liabilities ceded to Fortitude Re are reported in Corporate and Other. There is no impact to adjusted pre-tax operating income due to the annual update of actuarial assumptions as these liabilities are 100% ceded.
Update of Actuarial Assumptions Impact to Consolidated pre-tax income (loss)
Corebridge recognized favorable impacts to pre-tax income of $22 million, $132 million, and $31 million for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively, attributable to the annual actuarial assumption review. For 2023, the assumption update impacts were primarily driven by updates to the portfolio yield assumption, refinements to the modeling for universal life with secondary guarantees and similar features, and mortality assumption updates, partially offset by updated premium assumptions, and other refinements on life insurance products. For 2022, the assumption update impacts were driven by updates to the relationship between projected equity growth and interest rates, and updates to premium and withdrawal assumption for annuities, partially offset by updated investments spreads on life insurance products. For 2021, the assumption update impacts were mainly due to updated lapse and mortality expectations for annuities, along with updates to mortality assumptions on traditional life products and updated universal life product reserving methodology.
Update of Actuarial Assumptions Impact to Consolidated APTOI
Corebridge recognized favorable impacts to adjusted pre-tax operating income of $22 million, $29 million and $48 million for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively, attributable to the annual actuarial assumption review. For 2023, the assumption update impacts were primarily driven by updates to the portfolio yield assumption, refinements to the modeling for universal life with secondary guarantees and similar features, and mortality assumption updates, partially offset by updated premium assumptions, and other refinements on life insurance products. For 2022, the assumption update impacts were primarily driven by modeling refinements to reflect actual versus expected asset data related to calls and capital gains for life insurance products. For 2021, the assumption update impacts were primarily driven by updates to mortality assumptions on traditional life products and updated universal life product reserving methodology.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 132
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Liquidity and Capital Resources
 
Liquidity and Capital Resources
OVERVIEW
Liquidity is defined as cash and unencumbered assets that can be monetized in a short period of time at a reasonable cost. In addition to the on-balance-sheet liquid assets, liquidity resources include availability under committed bank credit facilities.
Capital refers to the long-term financial resources available to support the operation of our businesses, fund business growth, and cover financial and operational needs that arise from adverse circumstances.
We aim to manage our liquidity and capital resources prudently through a well-defined risk management framework that involves various target operating thresholds, as well as minimum requirements during periods of stress.
We believe that we have sufficient liquidity and capital resources to satisfy future requirements and meet our obligations to policyholders, customers, creditors and debt-holders, including those arising from reasonably foreseeable contingencies or events.
For a discussion regarding risks associated with liquidity and capital, see “Risk Factors—Risks Relating to Our Investment Portfolio, Liquidity, Capital and Credit.”
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES OF COREBRIDGE PARENT AND INTERMEDIATE HOLDING COMPANIES
As of December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, Corebridge Parent and its non-regulated intermediate holding companies (“Corebridge Hold Cos.”) had $4.1 billion and $4.0 billion, respectively, in liquidity sources. These liquidity sources were primarily held in the form of cash and short-term investments and included a $2.5 billion committed revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022. Corebridge Hold Cos.’ primary sources of liquidity are dividends, loans and other payments from subsidiaries, sales of businesses and credit facilities. Corebridge Hold Cos.’ primary uses of liquidity are for debt service, capital and liability management, and operating expenses.
Corebridge Parent expects to maintain liquidity that is sufficient to cover one year of its expenses. We expect the Corebridge Hold Cos. may access the debt and preferred equity markets from time to time to meet funding requirements as needed.
We utilize our capital resources to support our businesses, with the majority of capital held by our insurance businesses. Corebridge Hold Cos. intend to manage capital between Corebridge Hold Cos. and our insurance companies through internal, Board-approved policies as well as management standards. In addition, AIG had an unconditional capital maintenance agreement (“CMA”) in place with AGC. Effective December 31, 2023, the CMA was terminated. Nevertheless, regulatory and other legal restrictions could limit our ability to transfer capital freely, either to or from our subsidiaries.
As of December 31, 2023, Corebridge Parent and certain of our subsidiaries were parties to several letter of credit agreements with various financial institutions which issue letters of credit from time to time in support of our insurance companies. Letters of credit issued in support of our subsidiaries (primarily, insurance companies) totaled $151 million and $272 million at December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively.
The following table presents Corebridge Hold Cos.’ liquidity sources:
Years Ended December 31,
(in millions)		2023		2022		2021
Cash and short-term investments		$	1,591 			$	1,495 			$	1,016 	
Total Corebridge Hold Cos. liquidity		1,591 			1,495 			1,016 	
Available capacity under uncommitted borrowing facilities with AIG*		— 			— 			1,025 	
   Available capacity under committed, revolving credit facility		2,500 			2,500 			— 	
Total Corebridge Hold Cos. liquidity sources		$	4,091 			$	3,995 			$	2,041 	
 
* The uncommitted borrowing facilities with AIG were terminated on September 19, 2022, for further information, see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
COREBRIDGE HOLD COS. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES HIGHLIGHTS
SOURCES
Liquidity to Corebridge Parent from Subsidiaries
During the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, Corebridge Hold Cos. received $2.0 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively in dividends from subsidiaries.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 133
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Liquidity and Capital Resources
Senior Notes Offering
On December 8, 2023, Corebridge Parent issued and sold $750 million aggregate principal amount of senior notes.
On September 15, 2023, Corebridge Parent issued and sold $500 million aggregate principal amount of senior notes.
For further information, see “Short-term and Long-term debt” below.
Sale of Laya
On October 31, 2023, Corebridge completed the sale of Laya to AXA and received gross proceeds (i.e., net cash before transaction costs) of €691 million ($731 million).
USES
Debt Reduction
On December 8, 2023 and September 15, 2023, Corebridge Parent repaid $750 million and $500 million, respectively, of the $1.5 billion aggregate principal amount which had been drawn under the Three-Year DDTL Facility on September 15, 2022.
In 2022, we repaid the $8.3 billion promissory note issued in November 2021 to AIG.
Interest Payments
We made interest payments on our debt instruments totaling $438 million during the year ended December 31, 2023.
Dividends
During the year ended December 31, 2023, Corebridge Parent paid cash dividends totaling $1,722 million, including four quarterly dividend of $0.23 per share of its common stock, a special dividend of $0.62 per share of its common stock paid during the second quarter 2023 and a special dividend of $1.16 per share of its common stock paid in fourth quarter 2023.
Repurchase of Common Stock
During the year ended December 31, 2023, Corebridge Parent repurchased approximately 26.5 million of shares of its common stock, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $498 million.
For additional information, see Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Tax Sharing Payments
Following the IPO, AIG owned less than 80% interest in Corebridge, resulting in tax deconsolidation of Corebridge from the AIG Consolidated Tax Group. As such, as of September 15, 2022, we are no longer distributing tax sharing payments to AIG for tax liabilities of subsequent periods. With respect to historic tax periods and tax periods prior to the tax deconsolidation from AIG, Corebridge and AIG will make tax payments to each other pursuant to the Tax Matters Agreement dated September 14, 2022.
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES OF COREBRIDGE INSURANCE SUBSIDIARIES
Insurance Companies
We believe that our insurance companies have sufficient liquidity and capital resources to satisfy reasonably foreseeable future liquidity requirements and meet their obligations, including those arising from reasonably foreseeable contingencies or events, through cash from operations and, to the extent necessary, monetization of invested assets. Our insurance companies’ liquidity resources are primarily held in the form of cash, short-term investments and publicly traded, investment grade-rated fixed maturity securities.
The liquidity of each of our material insurance companies is monitored through various internal liquidity risk measures. The primary sources of liquidity are premiums, deposits, fees, reinsurance recoverables, investment income and maturities. The primary uses of liquidity are paid losses, reinsurance payments, benefit claims, surrenders, withdrawals, interest payments, dividends, expenses, investment purchases and collateral requirements.
Certain of our U.S. insurance companies are members of the FHLBs in their respective districts. Our borrowings from FHLBs are non-puttable and are used to supplement liquidity or for other uses deemed appropriate by management. Our U.S. insurance companies had $5.7 billion which were due to FHLBs in their respective districts at December 31, 2023, under funding agreements which were reported in policyholder contract deposits. These investment contracts do not have mortality or morbidity risk. Proceeds from funding agreements are generally invested in investments intended to generate spread income. In addition, our U.S. insurance companies had no outstanding borrowings in the form of cash advances from FHLBs at December 31, 2023.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 134
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Liquidity and Capital Resources
Certain of our U.S. insurance companies have securities lending programs that lend securities from their investment portfolios to supplement liquidity or for other uses deemed appropriate by management. Under these programs, these U.S. insurance companies lend securities to financial institutions and receive cash as collateral equal to 102% of the fair value of the loaned securities. Cash collateral received is kept in cash or invested in short-term investments or used for short-term liquidity purposes.
The aggregate amount of securities that a U.S. insurance company can lend under its program at any time is limited to 5% of its general account statutory-basis admitted assets. Our U.S. insurance companies had no securities subject to these agreements at December 31, 2023 and no liabilities to borrowers for collateral received at December 31, 2023.
There were no tax sharing payments related to the utilization of tax attributes distributed from our U.S. insurance companies to AIG in the year ended December 31, 2023.
We manage the capital of our Life Fleet RBC ratio targeting above 400%. AGC serves as an affiliate reinsurance company. The surplus of AGC is comprised predominantly of the statutory surplus of the Life Fleet. Given that AGC has no primary operations outside of this internal reinsurance, we believe that excluding AGC from the Life Fleet RBC ratio calculation presents a more accurate view of the overall capital position of our U.S. operating entities. Although not yet filed, our Life Fleet RBC ratio is expected to be above our target Life Fleet RBC ratio of 400% as of December 31, 2023.
The following table presents normalized distributions: 
Years Ended December 31,
(in millions)		2023		2022		2021
Subsidiary dividends paid		$	2,027 			$	1,821 			$	1,564 	
Less: Non-recurring dividends		— 			— 			(295)	
Tax sharing payments related to utilization of tax attributes		— 			401 			902 	
Normalized distributions		$	2,027 			$	2,222 			$	2,171 	
 
Dividend Restrictions
Payments of dividends to Corebridge Hold Cos. by our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to certain restrictions imposed by laws and regulations of their respective states. With respect to our domestic insurance subsidiaries, the payment of a dividend may require formal notice to the insurance department of the state in which the particular insurance subsidiary is domiciled, and prior approval of such insurance regulator is required when the amount of the dividend is above certain regulatory thresholds. See “Business — Regulation — U.S. Regulation — State Insurance Regulation.” Other foreign jurisdictions may restrict the ability of our foreign insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends.
To our knowledge, no Corebridge insurance company is currently on any regulatory or similar “watch list” with regard to solvency.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 135
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Liquidity and Capital Resources
ANALYSIS OF SOURCES AND USES OF CASH
Our primary sources and uses of liquidity are summarized as follows:
Years Ended December 31,
(in millions)		2023		2022		2021
Sources:						
Operating activities, net		$	3,357		$	2,621		$	2,405
Net changes in policyholder account balances		5,058		5,860		2,962
Issuance of long-term debt		1,240		7,451		—
Issuance of debt of consolidated investment entities		221		946		4,683
Contributions from noncontrolling interests		96		146		296
Financing other, net		139		299		81
Issuance of short-term debt		—		1,512		345
Net change in securities lending and repurchase agreements		—		—		9
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and restricted cash		3		—		—
Total Sources		10,114		18,835		10,781
Uses:						
Investing activities, net		(5,476)		(7,253)		(1,967)
Repayments of debt of consolidated investment entities		(535)		(1,228)		(5,125)
Repayments of long-term debt		—		—		(568)
Repayments of short-term debt		(1,250)		(8,312)		(248)
Distributions to AIG		—		—		(1,543)
Distributions to noncontrolling interests		(91)		(477)		(1,611)
Dividends paid on common stock		(1,722)		(876)		—
Net change in securities lending and repurchase agreements		(544)		(647)		—
Repurchase of common stock		(498)		—		—
Distributions to Class B shareholder		—		—		(34)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and restricted cash		—		(10)		(2)
Total Uses		(10,116)		(18,803)		(11,098)
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents		$	(2)		$	32		$	(317)
 
Operating Activities
Cash inflows from operating activities primarily include insurance premiums, fees and investment income. Cash outflows from operating activities primarily include benefit payments, general operating expenses and servicing of debt. Operating cash flow will fluctuate based on the timing of premiums received and benefit payments to policyholders, as well as other core business activities.
Investing Activities
Cash inflows from investing activities primarily include sales and maturities of underlying assets, mainly fixed maturities available-for-sale and principal payments on mortgage and other loans. The primary cash outflows for investing activities relate to the purchases of new securities, mainly fixed maturities available-for-sale.
Financing Activities
Cash inflows from financing activities primarily include policyholder deposits on investment-type contracts, issuances of debt and inflows from the settlement of securities lending and repurchase agreements. Cash outflows primarily relate to policyholder withdrawal activity on investment-type contracts, repayments of debt of consolidated investment entities, repayments of short and long-term debt, repurchases of common stock, shareholder dividends, distributions to noncontrolling interests and outflows for the settlement of securities lending and repurchase agreements.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 136
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Liquidity and Capital Resources
CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS
The following tables summarize contractual obligations in total, and by remaining maturity:
December 31, 2023				Payments due by Period
(in millions)		Total Payments		2024		2025 - 2026		Thereafter
Short-term and Long-term debt (a)
$	9,427 			$	250 			$	1,101 			$	8,076 	
Interest payments on Short-term and Long-term debt		6,031 			416 			798 			4,817 	
Insurance and investment contract liabilities (b)
319,395 			26,774 			48,996 			243,625 	
Total		$	334,853		$	27,440		$	50,895		$	256,518
 
(a)    The current interest period for the Three-Year DDTL Facility continues through February 29, 2024. We have the ability to further continue this borrowing through February 25, 2025.
(b)    Excludes insurance and investment contract liabilities associated with AIG Life that have been reclassified to held for sale.
Insurance and Investment Contract Liabilities
We expect liquidity needs related to insurance and investment contract liabilities to be funded through cash flows generated from maturities and sales of invested assets, including various investment-type products with contractually scheduled maturities, including periodic payments. These liabilities also include benefit and claim liabilities, of which a significant portion represents policies and contracts that do not have stated contractual maturity dates and may not result in any future payment obligations. For these policies and contracts (i) we are not currently making payments until the occurrence of an insurable event, such as death or disability, (ii) payments are conditional on survivorship or (iii) payment may occur due to a surrender or other non-scheduled event beyond our control.
We have made significant assumptions to determine the estimated undiscounted cash flows of these contractual policy benefits. These assumptions include mortality, morbidity, future lapse rates, expenses, investment returns and interest crediting rates, offset by expected future deposits and premiums on in-force policies. Due to the significance of the assumptions, the periodic amounts presented could be materially different from actual required payments. The amounts presented in the table above are undiscounted and exceed the future policy benefits and policyholder contract deposits included in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
We believe that our insurance companies have adequate financial resources to meet the payments required under these obligations. These subsidiaries have substantial liquidity in the form of cash and short-term investments. In addition, our insurance companies maintain significant levels of investment grade-rated fixed maturity securities, including substantial holdings in government and corporate bonds, and could seek to monetize those holdings in the event operating cash flows are insufficient.
Indemnification Arrangements
We are subject to indemnity arrangements which may be triggered by declines in asset values; specified business contingencies; the realization of contingent liabilities; litigation developments; or breaches of representations, warranties or covenants provided by us. These arrangements are typically subject to time limitations, defined by contract or by operation of law, such as by prevailing statutes of limitations. Depending on the specific terms of the arrangements, the maximum potential obligation may or may not be subject to contractual limitations. We have recorded liabilities for certain of these arrangements where it is possible to estimate them. These liabilities are not material in the aggregate. We are unable to develop a reasonable estimate of the maximum potential payout under some of these arrangements. Overall, we believe the likelihood that we will have to make any material payments under these arrangements is remote.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 137
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Liquidity and Capital Resources
SHORT-TERM AND LONG-TERM DEBT
We expect to repay the short-term and long-term debt maturities and interest accrued on these borrowings through cash flows generated from invested assets, future cash flows from operations, and future debt and other financing arrangements.
The following tables provide the rollforward of our total debt outstanding:
(in millions)		Maturity
Date(s)		Balance at December 31, 2022		Issuances		Maturities
and Repayments		Other Changes		Balance at December 31, 2023
Short-term debt issued by Corebridge:
Three-Year DDTL Facility*
2024		$	1,500 			$	— 			$	(1,250)			$	— 			$	250 	
Total short-term debt				1,500 			— 			(1,250)			— 			250 	
Long-term debt issued by Corebridge:												
Senior unsecured notes		2025-2052		6,500 			1,250 			— 			— 			7,750 	
Hybrid junior subordinated notes
2052		1,000 			— 			— 			— 			1,000 	
Long-term debt issued by Corebridge subsidiaries:												
CRBGLH notes
2025-2029		200 			— 			— 			— 			200 	
CRBGLH junior subordinated debentures
2030-2046		227 			— 			— 			— 			227 	
Total long-term debt				7,927 			1,250 			— 			— 			9,177 	
Debt issuance costs				(59)			— 			— 			— 			(59)	
Total long-term debt, net of debt issuance costs				7,868 			1,250 			— 			— 			9,118 	
Total debt, net of issuance costs
$	9,368 			$	1,250 			$	(1,250)			$	— 			$	9,368 	
 
*    The current interest period for the Three-Year DDTL Facility continues through February 29, 2024. We have the ability to further continue this borrowing through February 25, 2025.
SENIOR UNSECURED NOTES AND DELAYED DRAW TERM LOAN
On April 5, 2022, Corebridge Parent issued $6.5 billion of senior unsecured notes consisting of: $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of its 3.50% Senior Notes due 2025, $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of its 3.65% Senior Notes due 2027, $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of its 3.85% Senior Notes due 2029, $1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of its 3.90% Senior Notes due 2032, $500 million aggregate principal amount of its 4.35% Senior Notes due 2042 and $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of its 4.40% Senior Notes due 2052.
On September 15, 2022, Corebridge Parent borrowed an aggregate principal amount of $1.5 billion under the Three-Year DDTL Facility. On December 8, 2023 and September 15, 2023, Corebridge Parent used the net proceeds of the issuance of the Senior Notes and cash on hand to repay $750 million and $500 million, respectively, on the Three-Year DDTL Facility. As of December 31, 2023, a total of $250 million of borrowings are outstanding under the Three-Year DDTL Facility. For the current interest period, the Three-Year DDTL Facility will end on February 29, 2024, unless prior to that date Corebridge Parent elects to continue the loan, or a portion of it, for an additional interest period.
The Three-Year DDTL Facility bears interest at a rate per annum equal to the Adjusted Term SOFR Rate (as defined in terms of the Three-Year DDTL Facility) plus the Applicable Rate (as defined in the Three-Year DDTL Agreement, which is currently 1.000%, and is based on the applicable credit ratings of our senior unsecured long-term indebtedness). The Three-Year DDTL Facility matures on February 25, 2025.
On September 15, 2023, Corebridge Parent issued and sold $500 million of 6.050% Senior Notes due 2033.
On December 8, 2023, Corebridge Parent issued and sold $750 million of 5.750% Senior Notes due 2034.
HYBRID JUNIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES
On August 23, 2022, Corebridge Parent issued $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 6.875% fixed-to-fixed reset rate hybrid junior subordinated notes due 2052. Subject to certain redemption provisions and other terms of the hybrid junior subordinated notes, the interest rate and interest payment date reset every five years based on the average of the yields on five-year U.S. Treasury securities, as of the most recent interest rate determination on a reset plus a spread, payable semi-annually.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 138
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Liquidity and Capital Resources
REVOLVING CREDIT AGREEMENT
On May 12, 2022, Corebridge Parent entered into a revolving credit agreement (the “Revolving Credit Agreement”). The Revolving Credit Agreement provides for a five-year total commitment of $2.5 billion, consisting of standby letters of credit and/or revolving credit borrowings without any limits on the type of borrowings. Under circumstances described in the Revolving Credit Agreement, the aggregate commitments may be increased by up to $500 million, for a total commitment under the Revolving Credit Agreement of $3.0 billion. Loans under the Revolving Credit Agreement will mature on May 12, 2027. Under the Revolving Credit Agreement, the applicable rate, commitment fee and letter of credit fee are determined by reference to the credit ratings of Corebridge Parent’s senior, unsecured, long-term indebtedness. Borrowings bear interest at a rate per annum equal to (i) in the case of U.S. dollar borrowings, Term SOFR plus an applicable credit spread adjustment plus an applicable rate or an alternative base rate plus an applicable rate; (ii) in the case of Sterling borrowings, sterling overnight index average plus an applicable credit spread adjustment plus an applicable rate; (iii) in the case of Euro borrowings, European Union interbank Offer Rate plus an applicable rate; and (iv) in the case of Japanese Yen, Tokyo Interbank Offered Rate plus an applicable rate. The alternative base rate is equal to the highest of (a) the New York Federal Reserve Bank Rate plus 0.50%, (b) the rate of interest in effect as quoted by The Wall Street Journal as the “Prime Rate” in the United States and (c) Term SOFR plus a credit spread adjustment of 0.100% plus an additional 1.00%.
For additional information on debt outstanding and revolving credit facilities, see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
DEBT OF CONSOLIDATED INVESTMENT ENTITIES
Our non-financial debt includes debt of consolidated investment entities and such debt does not represent our contractual obligation and is non-recourse to Corebridge. This non-financial debt includes notes and bonds payables supported by cash and investments held by us and certain of our non-insurance subsidiaries for the repayment of those obligations.
(in millions)	Balance at December, 2022	Issuances	Maturities
and Repayments	Effect of Foreign Exchange	
Other Changes(c)
Balance at December 31, 2023
Debt of consolidated investment entities –
not guaranteed by Corebridge(a)(b)
$	5,958 		$	221 		$	(535)		$	32 		$	(3,172)		$	2,504 	
 
(a)At December 31, 2023, includes debt of consolidated investment entities related to real estate investments of $1.1 billion and other securitization vehicles of $1.1 billion.
(b)In relation to the debt of consolidated investment entities not guaranteed by Corebridge, creditors or beneficial interest holders of VIEs generally only have recourse to the assets and cash flows of the VIEs and do not have recourse to us.
(c)During the year ended December 31, 2023, Corebridge deconsolidated certain consolidated investment entities, as part of the sale of AIG Credit Management, LLC with $3.2 billion in liabilities.
CREDIT RATINGS
Credit ratings estimate a company’s ability to meet its obligations and may directly affect the cost and availability of financing to that company.
The following table presents the credit ratings of Corebridge Parent as of the date of this filing:
Hybrid Junior Subordinated Long-Term Debt	Senior Unsecured Long-Term Debt
Moody’s(a)
S&P(b)
Fitch(c)
Moody’s(a)
S&P(b)
Fitch(c)
Baa3 (Stable)	BBB- (Stable)	BBB- (Stable)	Baa2 (Stable)	BBB+ (Stable)	BBB+ (Stable)
 
(a)Moody’s appends numerical modifiers 1, 2 and 3 to the generic rating categories to show relative position within the rating categories.
(b)S&P ratings may be modified by the addition of a plus or minus sign to show relative standing within the major rating categories.
(c)Fitch ratings may be modified by the addition of a plus or minus sign to show relative standing within the major rating categories.
These credit ratings are current opinions of the rating agencies. They may be changed, suspended or withdrawn at any time by the rating agencies because of changes in, or unavailability of, information or based on other circumstances. Ratings may also be withdrawn at our request.
We are party to some agreements that contain “ratings triggers.” Depending on the ratings maintained by one or more rating agencies, these triggers could result in (i) the termination or limitation of credit availability or a requirement for accelerated repayment, (ii) the termination of business contracts or (iii) a requirement to post collateral for the benefit of counterparties.
In the event of a downgrade of our long-term debt ratings or our insurance subsidiaries’ IFS ratings, we would be required to post additional collateral under some derivative and other transactions, or certain of the counterparties of such other of our subsidiaries would be permitted to terminate such transactions early.
The actual amount of collateral that we or certain of our subsidiaries would be required to post to counterparties in the event of such downgrades, or the aggregate amount of payments that we could be required to make, depends on market conditions, the fair value of outstanding affected transactions and other factors prevailing at the time of the downgrade.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 139
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Liquidity and Capital Resources
INSURER FINANCIAL STRENGTH RATINGS
IFS ratings estimate an insurance company’s ability to pay its obligations under an insurance policy.
The following table presents the ratings of our primary insurance subsidiaries as of the date of this filing:
A.M. Best	S&P	Fitch	Moody’s
American General Life Insurance Company	A	A+	A+	A2
The Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company	A	A+	A+	A2
The United States Life Insurance Company in the City of New York	A	A+	A+	A2
 
These IFS ratings are current opinions of the rating agencies. They may be changed, suspended or withdrawn at any time by the rating agencies as a result of changes in, or unavailability of, information or based on other circumstances.
OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS AND COMMERCIAL COMMITMENTS
The following tables summarize Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Commercial Commitments in total, and by remaining maturity:
December 31, 2023				Amount of Commitment Expiring
(in millions)		
Total Amounts
Committed
2024		2025-2026		Thereafter
Commitments:								
Investment commitments(a)
$	4,302 			$	2,175 			$	1,685 			$	442 	
Commitments to extend credit		4,115 			1,338 			2,382 			395 	
Total(b)
$	8,417 			$	3,513 			$	4,067 			$	837 	
 
(a)Includes commitments to invest in private equity funds, hedge funds and other funds and commitments to purchase and develop real estate in the United States and abroad. The commitments to invest in private equity funds, hedge funds and other funds are called at the discretion of each fund, as needed for funding new investments or expenses of the fund. The expiration of these commitments is estimated in the table above based on the expected life cycle of the related fund, consistent with past trends of requirements for funding. Investors under these commitments are primarily insurance and real estate subsidiaries.
(b)We have no guarantees related to liquid facilities or indebtedness.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 140
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Accounting Policies and Pronouncements

 
Accounting Policies and Pronouncements
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires the application of accounting policies that often involve a significant degree of judgment. On a regular basis, we review estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. For a detailed discussion of our significant accounting policies and accounting pronouncements, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accounting policies that we believe are most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions, which are critical accounting estimates, are related to the determination of:
 
•fair value measurements of certain financial assets and liabilities;
•valuation of MRBs related to guaranteed benefit features of variable annuity, fixed annuity and fixed index annuity products;
•valuation of embedded derivative liabilities for fixed index annuity and index universal life products;
•valuation of future policy benefit liabilities and recognition of remeasurement gains and losses;
•reinsurance assets, including the allowance for credit losses;
•goodwill impairment;
•allowance for credit losses primarily on loans and available-for-sale fixed maturity securities; and
•income tax assets and liabilities, including recoverability of our net deferred tax asset and the predictability of future tax operating profitability of the character necessary to realize the net deferred tax asset.
These accounting estimates require the use of assumptions about matters, some of which are highly uncertain at the time of estimation. To the extent actual experience differs from the assumptions used, our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity could be materially affected.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS OF CERTAIN FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value in the Consolidated Balance Sheets are measured and classified in a hierarchy for disclosure purposes consisting of three levels based on the observability of inputs available in the marketplace used to measure the fair value. We classify fair value measurements for certain assets and liabilities as Level 3 when they require significant unobservable inputs in their valuation. We consider unobservable inputs to be those for which market data is not available. Our assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement of an asset or liability requires judgment.
For a discussion of the valuation methodologies for assets and liabilities measured at fair value, and a discussion of transfers of Level 3 assets and liabilities, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
MARKET RISK BENEFITS
Annuity products offered by our Individual Retirement and Group Retirement segments offer GMxBs. These guaranteed features include GMDBs that are payable in the event of death and GMWBs that guarantee lifetime withdrawals regardless of fixed account and separate account value performance.
For additional information on these features, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
GMxBs are recognized as MRBs and can be assets or liabilities and represent the expected value of benefits in excess of the projected account value, with changes in fair value of MRBs recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Income (Loss) and the portion of the fair value change attributable to our own credit risk recognized in OCI.
The Company’s exposure to the guaranteed amounts is equal to the amount by which the contract holder’s account balance is below the amount provided by the guaranteed feature. A deferred annuity contract may include more than one type of GMxB; for example, it may have both a GMDB and a GMWB. However, a policyholder can generally only receive payout from one guaranteed feature on a contract containing a death benefit and a living benefit, i.e., the features are generally mutually exclusive (except a surviving spouse who has a rider to potentially collect both a GMDB upon their spouse’s death and a GMWB during his or her lifetime). A policyholder cannot purchase more than one living benefit on one contract. Declines in the equity markets, increased volatility and a low interest rate environment generally increase the Company’s exposure to potential benefits under the guaranteed features, leading to an increase in the liabilities for those benefits.
For sensitivity analysis which includes the sensitivity of liabilities for guaranteed benefit features to changes in the assumptions for interest rates, equity returns, volatility, and mortality, see “Guaranteed Benefit Features of Variable Annuity, Fixed Annuity and Fixed Index Annuity Products.”
For additional discussion of market risk management related to these product features, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” included herein.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 141
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Accounting Policies and Pronouncements
The valuation methodology and assumptions used to measure our GMxBs is presented in the following table:
Fair Value Methodology
Guaranteed minimum benefits on annuity products are MRBs that are required to be measured at fair value with changes in the fair value of the liabilities recorded in change in the fair value of market risk benefits, net, except for changes related to the Company’s own credit risk which are recorded in AOCI. The fair value of these benefits is based on assumptions that a market participant would use in valuing these MRBs.
The Company applies a non-option-based approach for variable products, and an option-based approach for fixed index and fixed products.
Under the non-option-based approach, a portion of actual fees (i.e., attributed fees) is determined such that the present value of expected benefits less attributed fees is zero at issue. This calculated ratio is locked in and utilized in each policy valuation going forward and results in an MRB value of zero at policy issue.
Under the option-based approach, the MRB value at issue represents the present value of expected benefits after account value exhaustion. There is no calculated attributed fee ratio under this approach; as such, the calculated MRB liability at inception requires an equal and offsetting adjustment to the underlying host contract. Consistent with the non-option-based approach, this results in no gains or losses recognized upon policy issuance.
The fair value of the MRBs, which are Level 3 assets and liabilities, is based on a risk-neutral framework and incorporates actuarial and capital market assumptions related to projected cash flows over the expected lives of the contracts.
For additional information on how we value for MRBs, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, and for information on fair value measurement of these MRBs, including how we incorporate our own non-performance risk, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Key Assumptions	
Key assumptions include:
•    interest rates;
•    equity market returns;
•    market volatility;
•    credit spreads;
•    equity / interest rate correlation;
•    policyholder behavior, including mortality, lapses, withdrawals and benefit utilization. Estimates of future policyholder behavior are subject to judgment and based primarily on our historical experience; and
•    in applying asset growth assumptions for the valuation of MRBs, we use market-consistent assumptions calibrated to observable interest rate and equity option prices
For the fixed index annuity GMxB liability, policyholder funds are projected assuming growth equal to current option values for the current crediting period followed by option budgets for all subsequent crediting periods. Policyholder fund growth projected assuming credited rates are expected to be maintained at a target pricing spread, subject to guaranteed minimums.
 
VALUATION OF EMBEDDED DERIVATIVES FOR FIXED INDEX ANNUITY AND INDEX UNIVERSAL LIFE PRODUCTS
Fixed index annuity and life products provide growth potential based in part on the performance of market indices. Certain fixed index annuity products offer optional guaranteed benefit features similar to those offered on variable annuity products. Policyholders may elect to rebalance among the various accounts within the product at specified renewal dates. At the end of each index term, we generally have the opportunity to re-price the index component by establishing different participation rates or caps on index credited rates. The index crediting feature of these products results in the recognition of an embedded derivative that is required to be bifurcated from the host contract and carried at fair value with changes in the fair value of the liabilities recorded in Net realized gains (losses). Option pricing models are used to estimate fair value, taking into account assumptions for future index growth rates, volatility of the index, future interest rates, and our ability to adjust the participation rate and the cap on index credited rates in light of market conditions and policyholder behavior assumptions.
For additional discussion of market risk management related to these product features, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” included herein.
GUARANTEED BENEFIT FEATURES OF VARIABLE ANNUITY, FIXED ANNUITY AND FIXED INDEX ANNUITY PRODUCTS
Variable annuity products offered by our Individual Retirement and Group Retirement segments offer guaranteed benefit features. These guaranteed features include GMDB that are payable in the event of death and living benefits that guarantee lifetime withdrawals regardless of fixed account and separate account value performance. Living benefit features primarily include GMWB.
For additional information on these features, see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 142
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Accounting Policies and Pronouncements
The liability for GMDB, which is recorded in future policy benefits, represents the expected value of benefits in excess of the projected account value, with the excess recognized ratably through policyholder benefits over the accumulation period based on total expected assessments. The liabilities for variable annuity GMWB, which are recorded in Policyholder contract deposits, are accounted for as embedded derivatives measured at fair value, with changes in the fair value of the liabilities recorded in Net realized gains (losses).
Certain of our fixed annuity and fixed index annuity contracts, which are not offered through separate accounts, contain optional GMWB benefits. Different versions of these GMWB riders contain different guarantee provisions. The liability for GMWB benefits in fixed annuity and fixed index annuity contracts for which the rider guarantee is considered to be clearly and closely related to the host contract are recorded in future policy benefits. This GMWB liability represents the expected value of benefits in excess of the projected account value, with the excess recognized ratably over the accumulation period based on total expected assessments, through policyholder benefits. For rider guarantees in certain fixed index annuity contracts that are linked to equity indices that are considered to be embedded derivatives that are not clearly and closely related to the host contract, the GMWB liability is recorded in Policyholder contract deposits and measured at fair value, with changes in the fair value of the liabilities recorded in Net realized gains (losses).
Our exposure to the guaranteed amounts is equal to the amount by which the contract holder’s account balance is below the amount provided by the guaranteed feature. A deferred annuity contract may include more than one type of guaranteed benefit feature; for example, it may have both a GMDB and a GMWB. However, a policyholder can generally only receive payout from one guaranteed feature on a contract containing a death benefit and a living benefit, i.e., the features are generally mutually exclusive (except a surviving spouse who has a rider to potentially collect both a GMDB upon their spouse’s death and a GMWB during his or her lifetime). A policyholder cannot purchase more than one living benefit on one contract. Declines in the equity markets, increased volatility and a low interest rate environment increase our exposure to potential benefits under the guaranteed features, leading to an increase in the liabilities for those benefits.
For sensitivity analysis which includes the sensitivity of reserves for guaranteed benefit features to changes in the assumptions for interest rates, equity returns, volatility, and mortality, see below.
For additional discussion of market risk management related to these product features, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” included herein.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 143
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Accounting Policies and Pronouncements
The reserving methodology and assumptions used to measure the liabilities of our two largest guaranteed benefit features are presented in the following table:
Guaranteed Benefit Feature
Reserving Methodology and Key
Assumptions
GMDB and Fixed Annuity and Certain Fixed Index Annuity GMWB
We determine the GMDB liability at each balance sheet date by estimating the expected value of death benefits in excess of the projected account balance and recognizing the excess ratably over the accumulation period based on total expected assessments. For certain fixed and fixed index annuity products, we determine the GMWB liability at each balance sheet date by estimating the expected withdrawal benefits once the projected account balance has been exhausted ratably over the accumulation period based on total expected assessments. These GMWB features are deemed to not be embedded derivatives as the GMWB feature is determined to be clearly and closely related to the host contract.
The present value of the total expected excess payments (e.g., payments in excess of account value) over the life of contract divided by the present value of total expected assessments is referred to as the benefit ratio. The magnitude and direction of the change in reserves may vary over time based on the emergence of the benefit ratio and the level of assessments.
For additional information on how we reserve for variable and fixed index annuity products with guaranteed benefit features, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Key assumptions and projections include:
•interest credited that varies by year of issuance and products;
•actuarial determined assumptions for mortality rates that are based upon industry and our historical experience modified to allow for variations in policy features and experience anomalies;
•actuarially determined assumptions for lapse rates that are based upon industry and our historical experience modified to allow for variations in policy features and experience anomalies;
•investment returns, based on stochastically generated scenarios; and
•asset returns that include a reversion to the mean methodology.
In applying separate account asset growth assumptions for the variable annuity GMDB liability, we use a reversion to the mean methodology that reflects our expectation that market fluctuations tend to stabilize over time. Pursuant to this methodology, actual deviations from expected market performance (favorable or unfavorable) are assumed to reverse in subsequent years in support of our long-term asset growth assumptions. For the fixed index annuity GMWB liability, policyholder funds are projected assuming growth equal to current Option Values for the current crediting period followed by Option Budgets for all subsequent crediting periods. For the fixed annuity GMWB liability, policyholder fund growth projected assuming credited rates are expected to be maintained at a target pricing spread, subject to guaranteed minimums.
For a description of this methodology, see “Update of Actuarial Assumptions and Models —Investment-oriented products.”
Variable Annuity and Certain Fixed Index Annuity GMWB
GMWB living benefits on variable annuities and GMWB living benefits linked to equity indices on fixed index annuities are embedded derivatives that are required to be bifurcated from the host contract and carried at fair value with changes in the fair value of the liabilities recorded in realized gains (losses). The fair value of these embedded derivatives is based on assumptions that a market participant would use in valuing these embedded derivatives.
For additional information on how we reserve for variable and fixed index annuity products with guaranteed benefit features, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, and for information on fair value measurement of these embedded derivatives, including how we incorporate our own non-performance risk, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The fair value of the embedded derivatives, which are Level 3 liabilities, is based on a risk-neutral framework and incorporates actuarial and capital market assumptions related to projected cash flows over the expected lives of the contracts.
Key assumptions include:
•interest rates;
•equity market returns;
•market volatility;
•credit spreads;
•equity / interest rate correlation;
•policyholder behavior, including mortality, lapses, withdrawals and benefit utilization. Estimates of future policyholder behavior are subjective and based primarily on our historical experience;
•in applying asset growth assumptions for the valuation of GMWBs, we use market-consistent assumptions calibrated to observable interest rate and equity option prices; and
•allocation of fees between the embedded derivative and host contract.
 
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 144
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Accounting Policies and Pronouncements
The following table summarizes the sensitivity of changes in certain assumptions for MRBs, Liability for future policyholder benefits, net of reinsurance and embedded derivatives related to index-linked interest credited features, measured as the related hypothetical impact for the December 31, 2023 balances and the resulting hypothetical impact on pre-tax income and OCI, before hedging:
Increase (Decrease) due to changes in MRBs, Liability for future policyholder benefits, and Embedded derivatives related to index-linked interest credited features
December 31, 2023		Pre-Tax Income		OCI
(in millions)				
Assumptions:				
Equity Return(a)
Effect of an increase by 20%		$	157 			$	153 	
Effect of a decrease by 20%		$	(238)			$	(126)	
Interest Rate(b)
Effect of an increase by 1%		$	2,323 			$	2,902 	
Effect of a decrease by 1%		$	(3,087)			$	(3,465)	
 
(a)Represents the net impact of a 20% increase or decrease in the S&P 500 index.
(b)Represents the net impact of a 1% parallel shift in the yield curve.
The sensitivities of 20% and 1% are included for illustrative purposes only and do not reflect the changes in net investment spreads, equity return, volatility, interest rate, mortality or lapse used by us in our fair value analyses to value other applicable liabilities. Changes different from those illustrated may occur in any period and by different products.
The change in pre-tax income due to variances in equity returns or interest rates reflects the impact to MRBs using the at-issue NPA and the change in embedded derivatives related to index-linked interest credit features. The change in OCI due to equity returns solely reflects the impact on MRBs due to changes in the NPA, while the change in OCI due to interest rates also reflects the impact to the Liability for future policyholder benefits, net of reinsurance.
The analysis of MRBs and embedded derivatives is a dynamic process that considers all relevant factors and assumptions described above. We estimate each of the above factors individually, without the effect of any correlation among the key assumptions. An assessment of sensitivity associated with changes in any single assumption would not necessarily be an indicator of future results. The effects on pre-tax income in the sensitivity analysis table above do not reflect the related effects from our economic hedging program, which utilizes derivative and other financial instruments and is designed so that changes in value of those instruments move in the opposite direction of changes in the guaranteed benefit MRBs and embedded derivative liabilities.
For a further discussion on guaranteed benefit product features and the related hedging program, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” included herein and Notes 5, 10, 15 and 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
FUTURE POLICY BENEFITS FOR LIFE, ACCIDENT AND HEALTH INSURANCE CONTRACTS
Long-duration traditional products: primarily include whole life insurance, term life insurance, and certain payout annuities for which the payment period is life-contingent, which include certain of our single premium immediate annuities, including PRT business and structured settlements. In addition, these products also include accident and health, and LTC insurance. The LTC block is in run-off and has been fully reinsured with Fortitude Re.
Updating Net Premium Ratio (“NPR”) - Remeasurement gains and losses: Generally, future policy benefits are payable over an extended period of time and related liabilities are calculated as the present value of future benefits less the present value of future net premiums (portion of the gross premium required to provide for all benefits and expenses). The assumptions used to calculate the benefit liabilities are initially set when a policy is issued and an NPR is established. Benefit liabilities are subsequently remeasured periodically to reflect changes in policy assumptions and actual versus expected experience and are recognized as remeasurement gains and losses, a component of policyholder benefits. The assumptions include mortality, morbidity and persistency. These assumptions are typically consistent with pricing inputs at policy issuance. Liabilities are accreted using an upper-medium grade (low credit risk) fixed income instrument yield that is locked-in at policy issuance. The liabilities are remeasured at the balance sheet date using a current upper-medium grade yield with changes in the liabilities reported in OCI.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 145
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Accounting Policies and Pronouncements
For universal life policies with secondary guarantees: We recognize certain liabilities in addition to policyholder account balances. For universal life policies with secondary guarantees, as well as other universal life policies for which profits followed by losses are expected at contract inception, a liability is recognized based on a benefit ratio of (a) the present value of total expected payments, in excess of the account value, over the life of the contract, divided by (b) the present value of total expected assessments over the life of the contract. Universal life account balances are reported in Policyholder contract deposits, while these additional liabilities related to universal life products are reported within Future policy benefits in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. These additional liabilities are also adjusted to reflect the effect of unrealized gains or losses on fixed maturity securities available-for-sale on accumulated assessments, with related changes recognized through OCI. The policyholder behavior assumptions for these liabilities include mortality, lapses and premium persistency. The capital market assumptions used for the liability for universal life secondary guarantees include discount rates and net earned rates.
REINSURANCE RECOVERABLE
The estimation of reinsurance recoverable involves a significant amount of judgment. Reinsurance assets include reinsurance recoverables on future policy benefits and policyholder contract deposits that are estimated as part of our insurance liability valuation process and, consequently, are subject to significant judgments and uncertainties.
We assess the collectability of reinsurance recoverable balances on a regular basis, through either historical trends of disputes and credit events or financial analysis of the credit quality of the reinsurer. We record adjustments to reflect the results of these assessments through an allowance for credit losses and disputes on uncollectable reinsurance that reduces the carrying amount of reinsurance. This estimate requires significant judgment for which key considerations include:
•paid and unpaid amounts recoverable;
•whether the balance is in dispute or subject to legal collection;
•the relative financial health of the reinsurer as determined by the Obligor Risk Ratings (“ORRs”) we assign to each reinsurer based upon our financial reviews; reinsurers that are financially troubled (i.e., in run-off, have voluntarily or involuntarily been placed in receivership, are insolvent, are in the process of liquidation or otherwise subject to formal or informal regulatory restriction) are assigned ORRs that are expected to generate significant allowance; and
•whether collateral and collateral arrangements exist.
An estimate of the reinsurance recoverables’ lifetime expected credit losses is established utilizing a probability of default and loss given default method, which reflects the reinsurer’s ORR rating. The allowance for credit losses excludes disputed amounts. An allowance for disputes is established for a reinsurance recoverable using the losses incurred model for contingencies.
At December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, the allowance for credit losses and disputes on reinsurance recoverable was $30 million and $84 million, respectively or less than 1% of the reinsurance recoverable.
Fortitude Re
In February 2018, AGL, VALIC and USL entered into modco reinsurance agreements with Fortitude Re a registered Class 4 and Class E reinsurer in Bermuda.
These reinsurance transactions between us and Fortitude Re were structured as modco. In modco reinsurance agreements, the investments supporting the reinsurance agreements and which reflect the majority of the consideration that would be paid to the reinsurer for entering into the transaction, are withheld by, and therefore continue to reside on the balance sheet of, the ceding company (i.e., AGL, VALIC, USL) thereby creating an obligation for the ceding company to pay the reinsurer (i.e., Fortitude Re) at a later date. Additionally, as we maintain ownership of these investments, we intend to maintain our existing accounting for these assets (e.g., the changes in fair value of available-for-sale securities will be recognized within OCI). We have established a funds withheld payable to Fortitude Re while simultaneously establishing a reinsurance asset representing liabilities for the insurance coverage that Fortitude Re has assumed. The funds withheld payable contains an embedded derivative and changes in fair value of the embedded derivative related to the funds withheld payable are recognized in earnings through Net realized gains (losses). This embedded derivative is considered a total return swap with contractual returns that are attributable to various assets and liabilities associated with these reinsurance agreements.
For additional information on reinsurance, see Notes 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 146
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Accounting Policies and Pronouncements
ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES AND GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT
Allowance for Credit Losses
Available-for-sale securities
If we intend to sell a fixed maturity security, or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell a fixed maturity security, before recovery of its amortized cost basis and the fair value of the security is below amortized cost, an impairment has occurred and the amortized cost is written down to current fair value, with a corresponding charge to realized losses. No allowance is established in these situations and any previously recorded allowance is reversed. When assessing our intent to sell a fixed maturity security, or whether it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell a fixed maturity security before recovery of its amortized cost basis, management evaluates relevant facts and circumstances including, but not limited to, decisions to reposition our investment portfolio, sales of securities to meet cash flow needs and sales of securities to take advantage of favorable pricing.
For fixed maturity securities for which a decline in the fair value below the amortized cost is due to credit related factors, an allowance is established for the difference between the estimated recoverable value and amortized cost with a corresponding charge to realized losses. The allowance for credit losses is limited to the difference between amortized cost and fair value. The estimated recoverable value is the present value of cash flows expected to be collected, as determined by management. The difference between fair value and amortized cost that is not associated with credit related factors is presented in unrealized appreciation (depreciation) of fixed maturity securities on which an allowance for credit losses was previously recognized (a separate component of AOCI). Accrued interest is excluded from the measurement of the allowance for credit losses.
Commercial and residential mortgage loans
At the time of origination or purchase, an allowance for credit losses is established for mortgage and other loan receivables and is updated each reporting period. Changes in the allowance for credit losses are recorded in realized gains (losses).
This allowance reflects the risk of loss, even when that risk is remote, and reflects losses expected over the remaining contractual life of the loan. The allowance for credit losses considers available relevant information about the collectability of cash flows, including information about past events, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts of future economic conditions. We revert to historical information when we determine that we can no longer reliably forecast future economic assumptions.
The allowances for the commercial mortgage loans and residential mortgage loans in our portfolio are estimated utilizing a probability of default and loss given default model. Loss rate factors are determined based on historical data and adjusted for current and forecasted information. The loss rates are applied based on individual loan attributes and considering such data points as loan-to-value ratios, FICO scores, and debt service coverage.
The estimate of credit losses also reflects management’s assumptions on certain macroeconomic factors that include, but are not limited to, gross domestic product growth, employment, inflation, housing price index, interest rates and credit spreads.
For additional information on the methodology and significant inputs, by investment type, that we use to determine the amount of impairment and allowances for loan losses, see Notes 6 and 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT
Goodwill represents the future economic benefits arising from assets acquired in a business combination that are not individually identified and separately recognized. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if circumstances indicate an impairment may have occurred. A qualitative assessment may be performed, considering whether events or circumstances exist that lead to a determination that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of an operating segment is less than its carrying value. If management elects to perform a quantitative assessment to determine recoverability of carrying value or is compelled to do so based on the results of a qualitative assessment, the estimate of fair value may involve applying one or a combination of common valuation approaches. To determine fair value, we primarily use a discounted expected future cash flow analysis that estimates and discounts projected future distributable earnings. Such analysis is principally based on our business projections that inherently include judgments regarding business trends.
For a discussion of goodwill impairment, see “Risk Factors—Risks Relating to Estimates and Assumptions” and Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 147
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Accounting Policies and Pronouncements
INCOME TAXES
Deferred income taxes represent the tax effect of differences between the amounts recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements and the tax basis of assets and liabilities. Our assessment of net deferred income taxes represents management’s best estimate of the tax consequences of various events and transactions, which can themselves be based on other accounting estimates, resulting in incremental uncertainty in the estimation process.
Recoverability of Net Deferred Tax Asset
The evaluation of the recoverability of our deferred tax asset and the need for a valuation allowance requires us to weigh all positive and negative evidence to reach a conclusion that it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. The weight given to the evidence is commensurate with the extent to which it can be objectively verified. The more negative evidence that exists, the more positive evidence is necessary and the more difficult it is to support a conclusion that a valuation allowance is not needed.
We consider a number of factors to reliably estimate future taxable income so we can determine the extent of our ability to realize net operating losses, foreign tax credits, realized capital loss and other carryforwards. These factors include forecasts of future income for each of our businesses, which incorporate forecasts of future statutory income for our insurance companies, and actual and planned business and operational changes, both of which include assumptions about future macroeconomic and our specific conditions and events.
Recent events, including the IPO, multiple changes in target interest rates by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and significant market volatility, continued to impact actual and projected results of our business operations as well as our views on potential effectiveness of certain prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. In order to demonstrate the predictability and sufficiency of future taxable income necessary to support the realizability of the net operating losses and foreign tax credit carryforwards, we have considered forecasts of future income for each of our businesses, including assumptions about future macro-economic and our specific conditions and events, and any impact these conditions and events may have on our prudent and feasible tax planning strategies.
For a discussion of our framework for assessing the recoverability of our deferred tax asset, see Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Uncertain Tax Positions
Our accounting for income taxes, including uncertain tax positions, represents management’s best estimate of various events and transactions, and requires judgment. FASB Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes” now incorporated into Accounting Standards Codification, 740, “Income Taxes” prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of an income tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The standard also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties and additional disclosures. We determine whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained, based on technical merits, upon examination by the relevant taxing authorities before any part of the benefit can be recognized in the financial statements. A tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely to be realized upon settlement.
We classify interest expense and penalties recognized on income taxes as a component of income taxes.
For an additional discussion, see Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
ADOPTION OF ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a complete discussion of adoption of accounting pronouncements.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 148
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Glossary

 
Glossary
AIG Consolidated Tax Group — the U.S. federal income tax group of which AIG is the common parent.
Credit support annex — a legal document generally associated with an ISDA Master Agreement that provides for collateral postings which could vary depending on ratings and threshold levels.
Deferred policy acquisition costs — deferred costs that are incremental and directly related to the successful acquisition of new business or renewal of existing business.
Deferred sales inducement — represents enhanced crediting rates or bonus payments to contract holders on certain annuity and investment contract products that meet the criteria to be deferred and amortized over the life of the contract.
Fee income — is defined as policy fees plus advisory fees plus other fee income. For our Institutional Markets segment, its SVW products generate fee income.
Financial debt — represents the sum of short-term debt and long-term debt, net of debt issuance costs, not including (x) debt of consolidated investment entities—not guaranteed by Corebridge; (y) debt supported by assets and issued for purposes of earning spread income, such as GICs and FABNs; and (z) operating debt utilized to fund daily operations, i.e., self-liquidating forms of financing such as securities lending, reverse repurchase and captive reinsurance reserve financing arrangements.
Guaranteed investment contract — a contract whereby the issuer provides a guaranteed repayment of principal and a fixed or floating interest rate for a predetermined period of time.
Guaranteed minimum death benefit — a benefit that guarantees the annuity beneficiary will receive a certain value upon death of the annuitant. The GMDB feature may provide a death benefit of either (a) total deposits made to the contract, less any partial withdrawals plus a minimum return (and in rare instances, no minimum return); (b) return of premium whereby the benefit is the greater of the current account value or premiums paid less any partial withdrawals; (c) rollups whereby the benefit is the greater of current account value or premiums paid (adjusted for withdrawals) accumulated at contractually specified rates up to specified ages; or (d) the highest contract value attained, typically on any anniversary date less any subsequent withdrawals following the contract anniversary.
Guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit — a type of living benefit that guarantees that withdrawals from the contract may be taken up to a contractually guaranteed amount, even if the account value subsequently falls to zero, provided that during each contract year total withdrawals do not exceed an annual withdrawal amount specified in the contract. Once the account value is depleted under the conditions of the GMWB, the policy continues to provide a protected income payment.
ISDA Master Agreement — an agreement between two counterparties, which may have multiple derivative transactions with each other governed by such agreement, that generally provides for the net settlement of all or a specified group of these derivative transactions, as well as pledged collateral, through a single payment, in a single currency, in the event of a default on, or affecting any, one derivative transaction or a termination event affecting all, or a specified group of, derivative transactions.
Loan-to-value ratio — principal amount of loan amount divided by appraised value of collateral securing the loan.
Market risk benefit — is an amount that a policyholder would receive in addition to the account balance upon the occurrence of a specific event or circumstance, such as death, annuitization, or periodic withdrawal that involves protection from other-than-nominal capital market risk.
Master netting agreement — an agreement between two counterparties who have multiple derivative contracts with each other that provides for the net settlement of all contracts covered by such agreement, as well as pledged collateral, through a single payment, in a single currency, in the event of default on or upon termination of any one such contract.
Non-performance Risk Adjustment — adjusts the valuation of derivatives and MRBs to account for non-performance risk in the fair value measurement of all MRBs and derivative net liability positions.
Noncontrolling interests — the portion of equity ownership in a consolidated subsidiary not attributable to the controlling parent company.
Policy fees — an amount added to a policy premium, or deducted from a policy cash value or contract holder account, to reflect the cost of issuing a policy, establishing the required records and sending premium notices and other related expenses.
Reinsurance — the practice whereby one insurer, the reinsurer, in consideration of a premium paid to that insurer, agrees to indemnify another insurer, the ceding company, for part or all of the liability of the ceding company under one or more policies or contracts of insurance which it has issued.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 149
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Glossary
Risk-based capital — a formula designed to measure the adequacy of an insurer’s statutory surplus compared to the risks inherent in its business.
Spread income — is defined as net investment income less interest credited to policyholder account balances, exclusive of amortization of deferred sales inducement assets. Spread income is comprised of both base spread income and variable investment income. For our Institutional Markets segment, its structured settlements, PRT and GIC products generate spread income, which includes premiums, net investment income, less interest credited and policyholder benefits and excludes the annual assumption update.
Surrender charge — a charge levied against an investor for the early withdrawal of funds from a life insurance or annuity contract, or for the cancellation of the agreement.
Surrender rate — represents annualized surrenders and withdrawals as a percentage of average reserves and Group Retirement mutual fund assets under administration.
Underwriting margin — for our Life Insurance segment includes premiums, policy fees, other income, net investment income, less interest credited to policyholder account balances and policyholder benefits and excludes the annual assumption update. For our Institutional Markets segment, its Corporate Markets products generate underwriting margin, which includes premiums, net investment income, policy and advisory fee income, less interest credited and policyholder benefits and excludes the annual assumption update.
Value of business acquired — present value of projected future gross profits from in-force policies of acquired businesses.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 150
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Certain Important Terms

 
Certain Important Terms
We use the following capitalized terms in this report
“AGC” means AGC Life Insurance Company, a Missouri insurance company;
“AGC Group” means AGC and its directly owned life insurance subsidiaries;
“AGL” means American General Life Insurance Company, a Texas insurance company;
“AGREIC” means AIG Global Real Estate Investment Corporation;
“AHAC” means American Home Assurance Company, a consolidated subsidiary of AIG;
“AIG” means AIG, Inc. and its subsidiaries, other than Corebridge and Corebridge’s subsidiaries, unless the context refers to AIG, Inc. only;
“AIG Group” means American International Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries, including Corebridge Parent and Corebridge Parent’s subsidiaries;
“AIG, Inc.” means American International Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation;
“AIG Life” means AIG Life Limited, a U.K. insurance company, and its subsidiary;
“AIGM” means AIG Markets, Inc., a consolidated subsidiary of AIG;
“AIGT” means AIG Technologies, Inc., a New Hampshire corporation;
“AIRCO” means American International Reinsurance Company, Ltd., a consolidated subsidiary of AIG;
“BlackRock” means BlackRock Financial Management, Inc.;
“Blackstone” means Blackstone Inc. and its subsidiaries;
“Blackstone IM” means Blackstone ISG-1 Advisors L.L.C.;
“Board” means the Corebridge Financial, Inc. Board of Directors;
“CIIUS” means Corebridge Institutional Investments (U.S), LLC (formerly known as AIG Asset Management (U.S.), LLC.(“AMG”));
“Corebridge”, “we,” “us,” “our” or the “Company” means Corebridge and its subsidiaries, unless the context refers to Corebridge Parent;
“Corebridge FD” means Corebridge Financial Distributors;
“Corebridge Forward” means Corebridge’s expense savings initiative aimed at improving profitability across its businesses through operating expense reductions;
“Corebridge Parent” means Corebridge Financial, Inc. (formerly known as SAFG Retirement Services, Inc.), a Delaware corporation;
“CRBG Bermuda” means Corebridge Insurance Company of Bermuda, Ltd. (formerly known as AIG Life of Bermuda, Ltd.), a Bermuda insurance company;
“CRBGLH” means Corebridge Life Holdings, Inc. (formerly known as AIG Life Holdings, Inc.), a Texas corporation;
“Eastgreen” means Eastgreen Inc.;
“Fortitude Re” means Fortitude Reinsurance Company Ltd., a Bermuda insurance company;
“Fortitude Re Bermuda” means FGH Parent, L.P., a Bermuda exempted limited partnership and the indirect parent of Fortitude Re;
“Laya” means Laya Healthcare Limited, an Irish insurance intermediary, and its subsidiary;
“Lexington” means Lexington Insurance Company, an AIG subsidiary;
“Life Fleet” means AGL, USL and VALIC;
“Majority Interest Fortitude Sale” means the sale by AIG of substantially all of its interests in Fortitude Re's parent company to Carlyle FRL, L.P., an investment fund advised by an affiliate of The Carlyle Group Inc., and T&D United Capital Co., Ltd., a subsidiary of T&D Holdings, Inc., under the terms of a membership interest purchase agreement entered into on November 25, 2019 by and among AIG; Fortitude Group Holdings, LLC; Carlyle FRL, L.P.; The Carlyle Group Inc.; T&D United Capital Co., Ltd.; and T&D Holdings, Inc. We currently own less than a 3% indirect interest in Fortitude Re;
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 151
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Certain Important Terms
“NUFIC” means National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, PA, a consolidated subsidiary of AIG;
“NYSE” means the New York Stock Exchange;
“Reorganization” means the transactions described under “The Reorganization Transactions”;
“SAFG Capital” means SAFG Capital LLC (formerly known as Cap Corp.), a Delaware corporation;
“USL” means The United States Life Insurance Company in the City of New York, a New York insurance company;
“VALIC” means The Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company, a Texas insurance company; and
“VALIC Financial Advisors” means VALIC Financial Advisors, Inc., a Texas corporation.
 
Corebridge | 2023 Form 10-K 152
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ITEM 7 | Acronyms

 
Acronyms
•“AATOI” — adjusted after-tax operating income attributable to our common stockholders;
•“ABS” — asset-backed securities;
•“APTOI” — adjusted pre-tax operating income;
•“AUA” — assets under administration;
•“AUM” — assets under management;
•“AUMA” — assets under management and administration;
•“BMA” — Bermuda Monetary Authority;
•“CDO” — collateralized debt obligations;
•“CDS” — credit default swap;
•“CLO” — collateralized loan obligations;
•“CMBS” — commercial mortgage-backed securities;
•“DAC” — deferred policy acquisition costs;
•“DSI” — deferred sales inducement;
•“FABN”— funding-agreement back notes;
•“FASB” — the Financial Accounting Standards Board;
•“GAAP” — accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America;
•“GIC” — guaranteed investment contract;
•“GMDB” — guaranteed minimum death benefits;
•“GMWB” — guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits;
•“ISDA” — the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc.;
•“MBS” — mortgage-backed securities;
•“MRB” — market risk benefits;
•“NAIC” — National Association of Insurance Commissioners;
•“NPA” — Non-performance risk adjustment;
•“NPR” — Net premium ratio;
•“PRT” — pension risk transfer;
•“RBC” — Risk-Based Capital;
•“RMBS” — residential mortgage-backed securities;
•“S&P” — Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC;
•“SEC” — the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission;
•“SVW” — stable value wrap;
•“URR” — unearned revenue reserve;
•“VIE” — variable interest entity;
•“VIX” — volatility index; and
•“VOBA” — value of business acquired.