CIK: 807707
Company Name: VOXX INTERNATIONAL CORP
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2021-05-13
Accession Number: 0001564590-21-027539


Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations , " of this Form 10-K. Acquisitions and Dispositions The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in a widespread health crisis that has adversely affected the economies and financial markets worldwide, and potential target companies or potential buyers may defer or end discussions for a potential acquisition or disposition with us depending on whether or not COVID-19 affects their business operations. The extent to which COVID-19 impacts our search for a business combination or a potential buyer for a business disposition will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including new information which may emerge concerning the severity of COVID-19 and the actions to contain COVID-19 or treat its impact, among others. We may be unable to complete a business combination or a disposition if continued concerns relating to COVID-19 restrict travel, limit the ability to have meetings with potential investors, or if a target company personnel, vendors, and service providers are unavailable to negotiate and consummate a transaction in a timely manner. Our most recent acquisition and disposition transactions are discussed below: On July 1, 2020, Voxx acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities, comprising the aftermarket vehicle remote start and security systems and connected car solutions (telematics) businesses of Directed LLC and Directed Electronics Canada Inc. (collectively, with Directed LLC, Directed ) via an asset purchase agreement. The acquired assets included inventory, accounts receivable, certain fixed assets, IT systems, and intellectual property. The cash purchase price was $11,000. The purpose of this acquisition was to expand the Company market share within the automotive electronics industry. Details of the tangible and intangible assets acquired are outlined in Note 2 "Business Acquisitions" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. On January 31, 2020, Voxx acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of Vehicle Safety Holding Corp. ( VSHC ), a leading developer, manufacturer, and distributer of automotive safety electronics, for a cash purchase price of $16,500. The purpose of this acquisition was to increase the Company market share in the automotive industry, including trucks and sports vehicles, as well as strengthen its business and customer reach and add new product lines. Details of the tangible and intangible assets acquired are outlined in Note 2 "Business Acquisitions" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. On April 18, 2017, Voxx acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of Rosen Electronics LLC for cash consideration of $1,814. In addition, the Company agreed to pay a 2% fee related to future net sales of Rosen products for three years. The purpose of this acquisition was to increase the Company's market share and strengthen its intellectual property related to the rear seat entertainment market. On August 31, 2017 (the "Closing Date"), the Company completed its sale of Hirschmann Car Communication GmbH and its subsidiaries (collectively, Hirschmann ) to a subsidiary of TE Connectivity Ltd ("TE"). The consideration received by the Company was 148,500. The purchase price, at the exchange rate as of the close of business on the Closing Date approximated $177,000. 6 Strategy Our objective is to grow our business both organically and through strategic acquisitions. We anticipate we will drive the business organically by continued product development in new and emerging technologies that should increase gross margins and improve operating income. We are focused on expanding sales both domestically and internationally and broadening our customer and partner base as we bring new products to our target markets. In addition, we plan to continue to acquire synergistic companies that would allow us to leverage our overhead, penetrate new markets, and expand existing product categories. Notwithstanding the above, if the appropriate opportunity arises, the Company will explore the potential divestiture of a product line or business. Subject to our ongoing evaluation of the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on our business (as further described elsewhere in this report), the key elements of our strategy are as follows: Continue to build and capitalize on the VOXX family of brands. We believe the "VOXX" portfolio of brands is one of our greatest strengths and offers us significant opportunity for increased market penetration. Today, VOXX International has over 30 global brands in its portfolio, which provides the Company with the ability to bring to market products under brands that consumers know to be quality. In addition, with such a wide brand portfolio, we can manage channels and sell into multiple outlets as well as leverage relationships with distributors, retailers, aftermarket car dealers and expeditors, and global OEMs. Finally, we are open to opportunities to license some of our brands as an additional use of the brands and as a growth strategy. Continue to maintain diversified, blue chip customer base. Voxx distributes products through a wide range of specialty and mass merchandise channels and has arrangements as a tier-1 and tier-2 auto OEM supplier. OEM products account for 8% of total net sales. Capitalize on niche product and distribution opportunities in our target markets. Throughout our history, we have used our extensive distribution and supply networks to capitalize on niche product and distribution opportunities in the automotive electronics, consumer electronics, and biometrics categories. We will continue that focus as we remain committed to innovation, developing products internally and through our outsourced technology and manufacturing partners to provide our customers with products that are in demand by consumers. Combine new, internal manufacturing capabilities with our proven outsourced manufacturing with industry partners . VOXX International employs an outsourced manufacturing strategy that enables the Company to deliver the latest technological advances without the fixed costs associated with manufacturing, and also has manufacturing capabilities to produce select product lines, such as rear-seat entertainment systems, security related products, and high-end speakers. This blend of internal and outsourced manufacturing enables the Company to drive innovation, control product quality and speed time-to-market. Use innovative technology generation capabilities to enable us to build a robust pipeline of new products. Voxx has invested significantly in R&D. The Company uses a mix of internal and external R&D, internal and external manufacturing, and has a number of valuable trademarks, copyrights, patents, domain names and other intellectual property. Through Voxx's focus on R&D, the Company has built a pipeline of new products across all three of its segments. Leverage our domestic and international distribution network. VOXX International Corporation has a highly expansive distribution network. This network, which includes OEM's, car dealers, automotive manufacturers, various types of retailers and chain stores, mass merchandisers, distributors, e-commerce platforms, system integrators, communication network providers, smart grid manufacturers, banks, cinema operators, healthcare equipment manufacturers, and the U.S. military, should allow us to increase our market penetration. We intend to capitalize on new and existing distribution outlets to further grow our business across our three operating segments, both domestically and abroad. Grow our international presence. We have an international presence through our local subsidiaries in Europe, as well as operations in Canada and China. We also continue to export from our domestic operations in the United States. Our strategy remains to diversify our geographic exposure, while expanding our product offerings and distribution touch points across the world. Pursue strategic and complementary acquisitions. We continue to monitor economic and industry conditions in order to evaluate potential strategic and synergistic business acquisitions that are expected to allow us to leverage 7 overhead, penetrate new markets and expand our existing business distribution. Over the past several years, the Company has employed an M&A strategy to build its brand portfolio and enhance its product offering s in higher margin product categories, while at the same time exiting lower margin and commoditized product lines, resulting in improved bottom-line performance. The Company is focused on continuing to grow organically, but may pursue opportunistic acquisitions to augment our A utomotive Electronic (primarily with OEM accounts), Consumer Electronic , and Biometric segments. Maintain disciplined acquisition criteria. Virtually all of our acquisitions have been made to strengthen our product offerings, customer reach and growth potential across our operating business segments. Our strategy remains to acquire complimentary businesses, products and/or assets in our Automotive Electronic, Consumer Electronic, and Biometric operating segments. Additionally, acquisitions should have a gross margin structure equal to or higher than our consolidated gross margins, and we will continue to look for acquisitions where we can leverage our corporate overhead and resources. Furthermore, it is important that management remains with Voxx as part of the acquisition, as their legacy expertise and knowledge of both the inner workings of their respective companies and the end-markets they serve are paramount to successfully running operations and achieving growth. We also pursue acquisitions that will be accretive for the Company and its shareholders in the first year such acquisitions are made. Rapidly integrate acquired businesses. One of the more compelling factors as to why acquired businesses choose VOXX International Corporation is that we are perceived as both a financial and strategic partner. We are operators, and companies view their association with us as a positive for the future of their businesses in that we can provide resources and support that others in our sector, or in the Private Equity community, cannot. Our strategy upon acquisition, and in the years that follow, is to leverage our corporate strengths and integrate acquisitions into our operations. We provide accounting, MIS, warehouse, and logistics support, as well as a host of value-added services that enable acquired companies to lower their cost basis and improve profitability. In recent years, we have consolidated facilities in our German operations and in Indiana, where we brought our RCA and Klipsch operating groups together. We have also fully integrated our Rosen, VSM, and DEI acquisitions into our Florida operations. Improve bottom-line performance and generate sustainable shareholder returns. The Company has instituted an aggressive strategy in recent years to shift its product mix to higher-margin product categories, while controlling costs and strategically investing in its infrastructure. Additionally, during Fiscal 2019, the Company began a comprehensive SKU rationalization program to discontinue certain product lines and streamline the Company consumer electronic product lines to focus on offerings with longer life cycles, more sustainable gross margins, and better growth potential. The Company remains focused on growing its business organically, continuing to enhance its gross profit margins and leveraging its fixed overhead structure to generate sustainable returns for its stockholders. Industry We participate in select product categories in the automotive, consumer, and biometric markets within the electronics industry. These markets are large and diverse, encompass a broad range of products and offer the ability to specialize in niche product groups. The introduction of new products and technological advancements are the major growth drivers in these markets. Based on this, we continue to introduce new products across all segments, with an increased focus on niche product offerings. Products The Company currently reports sales data for the following three operating segments: Automotive Electronic products include: mobile multi-media infotainment products, including overhead, seat-back, and headrest systems, automotive security, vehicle access, and remote start systems, satellite radios, including plug and play models and direct connect models, smart phone telematics applications, mobile interface modules, automotive power accessories, rear observation and collision avoidance systems, driver distraction products, power lift gates, turn signal switches, 8 automotive lighting products, automotive sensing and camera systems, USB ports, cruise control systems, and heated seats. Consumer Electronic products include: premium loudspeakers, architectural speakers, commercial speakers, outdoor speakers, wireless and Bluetooth speakers, home theater systems, business music systems, streaming music systems, on-ear and in-ear headphones, wired and wireless headphones and ear buds, Bluetooth headphones and ear buds, soundbars, DLNA (Digital Living Network Alliance) compatible devices, High-Definition Television ("HDTV") antennas, Wireless Fidelity ("WiFi") antennas, High-Definition Multimedia Interface ("HDMI") accessories, karaoke products, infant/nursery products, home electronic accessories such as cabling, power cords, and other connectivity products, performance enhancing electronics, TV universal remotes, flat panel TV mounting systems, power supply systems and charging products, electronic equipment cleaning products, personal sound amplifiers, set-top boxes, and home and portable stereos. Biometric products include: iris identification products, and biometric security related products. We believe our segments have expanding market opportunities with certain levels of volatility related to domestic and international markets, new car sales, increased competition by manufacturers, private labels, technological advancements, discretionary consumer spending and general economic conditions. Further, all of our products are subject to price fluctuations, which could affect the carrying value of inventories and gross margins in the future. Within the industry our Biometrics segment operates in, technology is developing rapidly. During Fiscal 2021, the COVID-19 pandemic has begun to cause a greater interest for safe and touchless biometric systems. Widely used face readers are now being rendered ineffective by the use of facemasks and other protective facial gear, and fingerprint and palm reader secure access devices are now seen as infectious public surfaces. Iris biometric algorithms read the unique texture in the colored part of the eye, creating a unique identification for access, similar to that of a fingerprint or the geometric pattern of a face. This iris-based key, however, has the benefit of not only being touchless, but is also not hindered by the obstacles encountered by face recognition devices, such as facemasks or other devices that hide facial features. Iris biometrics can operate successfully without touching or mask removal, even through protective gear such as hazmat suits, if a person eyes are visible. 9 Net sales, by segment, gross profit and total assets are as follows (Refer to Item 7 and Note 13 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information): Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal 2021 2020 2019 Automotive Electronics $ 163,903 $ 114,154 $ 161,647 Consumer Electronics 398,263 279,675 283,144 Biometrics 836 461 1,098 Corporate/Eliminations 603 599 927 Total net sales $ 563,605 $ 394,889 $ 446,816 Gross profit $ 158,547 $ 109,776 $ 121,417 Gross margin percentage 28.1 % 27.8 % 27.2 % Total assets $ 550,818 $ 441,571 $ 508,811 Patents, Trademarks/Tradenames, Licensing and Royalties The Company regards its trademarks, copyrights, patents, domain names, and similar intellectual property as important to its operations. It relies on trademark, copyright and patent law, domain name regulations, and confidentiality or license agreements to protect its proprietary rights. The Company has registered, or applied for the registration of, a number of patents, trademarks, domain names and copyrights with U.S. and foreign governmental authorities. Additionally, the Company has filed U.S. and international patent applications covering certain of its proprietary technology. The Company renews its registrations, which vary in duration, as it deems appropriate from time to time. The Company has licensed in the past, and expects that it may license in the future, certain of its proprietary rights to third parties. Some of the Company's products are designed to include intellectual property licensed, or otherwise obtained from third parties. While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of the Company's products, the Company believes, based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms; however, there is no guarantee such licenses could be obtained at all. We intend to operate in a way that does not result in willful infringement of the patents, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights of other parties. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that a claim of infringement will not be asserted against us or that any such assertion will not result in a judgment or order requiring us to obtain a license in order to make, use, or sell our products. License and royalty programs offered to our manufacturers, customers and other electronic suppliers are structured using a fixed amount per unit or a percentage of net sales, depending on the terms of the agreement. Current license and royalty agreements have duration periods which range from 1 to 12 years or continue in perpetuity. Certain agreements may be renewed at termination of the agreement. The Company's license and royalty income is recorded upon sale and amounted to $1,285, $1,224 and $1,382 for the years ended February 28, 2021, February 29, 2020 and February 28, 2019, respectively. Distribution and Marketing We sell our products to: automotive and vehicle manufacturers, OEM Tier 1, Tier 2, and secondary OEM manufacturers, mass merchants, regional chain stores, distributors, e-commerce platforms, premium department stores, lifestyle retailers, specialty and internet retailers, retail solutions manufacturers, power retailers, independent 12-volt retailers, new car dealers, 10 healthcare equipment manufacturers, system integrators, communication network providers, smart grid manufacturers, banks, the U.S. military, cinema operators, sporting goods equipment retailers, and cell phone carriers. Our business is diversified within our segments across end-markets, customers, and products. We sell our automotive electronic products to both OEM and aftermarket customers. We sell our products under OEM arrangements with domestic and/or international subsidiaries of automobile manufacturers such as Ford, Fiat Chrysler, General Motors, Toyota, Kia, Mazda, Subaru, Nissan, Mack Truck, Polaris, Bendix Commercial, Daimler Trucks North America, Textron Finance Shared Service, Wesco Distribution, ZF North America Autocar, Dieter Metal Fabricating, Grote Industries, International Truck (PDC), P.A.I. Products and Ryco Motorsport. These arrangements require a close partnership with the customer as we develop products to meet specific requirements. OEM products accounted for approximately 8% of net sales for the year ended February 28, 2021, 13% for the year ended February 29, 2020, and 20% for the year ended February 28, 2019. Our consumer electronic and biometric products are sold through both retail and commercial channels. Our five largest customers represented 30% of net sales for the year ended February 28, 2021, 24% for the year ended February 29, 2020, and 25% for the year ended February 28, 2019. One customer in the Company Consumer Electronics segment accounted for 12% of the Company total consolidated net sales during the year ended February 28, 2021. No one customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company's net sales for the years ended February 29, 2020 or February 28, 2019. Geographically, approximately 85% of our revenues were derived from our domestic operations within the United States, while approximately 15% was derived from our operations in Europe, and less than 1% was derived from other regions. We have flexible shipping policies designed to meet customer needs. In the absence of specific customer instructions, we generally ship products within 24 to 48 hours from the receipt of an order from public warehouses, as well as owned and leased facilities throughout the United States, Canada, China, Hong Kong, the Netherlands, and Germany. The Company also employs a direct ship model from our suppliers for select customers upon their request. Product Development, Warranty and Customer Service Our product development cycle includes: identifying consumer trends and potential demand, responding to those trends through product design and feature integration, which includes software design, electrical engineering, industrial design, and pre-production testing. In the case of OEM customers, the product development cycle may also include product validation to customer quality standards, and evaluating and testing new products in our own facilities to ensure compliance with our design specifications and standards. Utilizing our company-owned and third-party facilities in North America, Europe, and Asia, we work closely with our suppliers throughout the product design, testing and development process in an effort to meet the expectations of consumer demand for technologically advanced and high-quality products. Our Auburn Hills, Michigan and Orlando, Florida facilities are both IATF 16949:2016 certified, and our Orlando, Florida facility is ISO 14001:2015 and ISO 9001:2008 certified, all of which require the monitoring of quality standards in all facets of business. The Orlando, Florida facility is also Ford Q1 certified, which is a certification awarded to Ford suppliers who demonstrate excellence beyond the ISO certifications in certain critical areas. We provide product warranties for all our product lines, which primarily range from 30 days to three years. The Company also provides limited lifetime warranties for certain products, which limit the end-user's remedy to the repair or replacement of the defective product during its lifetime, as well as warranties for certain vehicle security products for the life of the vehicle for the original owner. To support our warranties, we have independent warranty centers in the United States and Europe. Our customer service group, along with our Company websites, provide product information, answer questions, and serve as a technical hotline for installation help for end-users and customers. 11 Suppliers We work directly with our suppliers on industrial design, feature sets, product development, and testing in order to ensure that our products and component parts meet our design specifications. We purchase our products and component parts from manufacturers principally located in several Pacific Rim countries, including China, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, Vietnam, South Korea, Taiwan, and Singapore, as well as the United States, Canada, Mexico, and Europe. In selecting our manufacturers, we consider quality, price, service, reputation, financial stability, as well as labor practices, disruptions, or shortages. In order to provide coordination and supervision of supplier performance, such as price negotiations, delivery, and quality control, we maintain buying and inspection offices in China and Hong Kong. We consider relations with our suppliers to be good and alternative sources of supply are generally available within 180 days. We have few long-term contracts with our suppliers, and we generally purchase our products under short-term purchase orders. Although we believe that alternative sources of supply are currently available, an unplanned shift to a new supplier could result in product delays and increased cost, which may have a material impact on our operations. Competition The electronics industry is highly competitive across all product categories, and we compete with a number of well-established companies that manufacture and sell similar products. Brand name, design, advancement of technology and features as well as price are the major competitive factors within the electronics industry. Our Automotive Electronic products compete against factory-supplied products, including those provided by, among others, General Motors, Ford, and Fiat Chrysler and large Tier 1's, such as Denso, Panasonic, LG, Continental, Lear, and Bosch. Our Consumer Electronic products compete against major companies such as Polk, Definitive, Bose, Sonos, Sonance, Bowers and Wilkins, Sony, Phillips, Emerson Radio, GE, Belkin, and Private Label Brands. Competitors for our Biometrics products include companies such as IRIS ID, 3M, Suprema, Iritech, Inc., IrisGuard, Crossmatch, NEC, Gemalto, Vision-Box, IDEMIA, BioID, GoVerifyID, BioConnect, and Princeton Identity. Financial Information about Foreign and Domestic Operations The amounts of net sales and long-lived assets attributable to foreign and domestic operations for all periods presented are set forth in Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included herein. Equity Investment We have a 50% non-controlling ownership interest in ASA Electronics, LLC ("ASA") which acts as a distributor of mobile electronics specifically designed for niche markets within the automotive industry, including: RV's; buses; and commercial, heavy duty, agricultural, construction, powersport, and marine vehicles. Human Capital VOXX International Corporation believes the Company greatest asset is its employees. The Company emphasis on the health and safety of its employees is an important factor in maintaining its experienced workforce and attracting new talent. As of February 28, 2021, the Company employed 921 people, of which 629 were U.S. based and 292 were internationally based. 41 of our U.S. based employees were covered under collective bargaining agreements. We consider our relations with employees to be good as of February 28, 2021. The Company U.S. based full-time employees are all eligible to participate in the Company health and welfare plans, including health, vision, dental, life, short-term disability insurance plans, long-term disability insurance plans, flexible spending plans and/or health saving plans, pet insurance, critical care plans and identity theft protection plans. Many of these plans are fully paid for by the Company, while others are cost shared between the Company and the employees or are employee-paid at a discounted rate. To encourage our employees to save for the future and their retirement, the Company offers employees a 401(k) retirement plan which has options for traditional pre-tax deferrals, as well as Roth options. The 401(k) plan also includes a discretional Company match which encourages employees to participate and enhances the Company commitment to its employees and their families. Internationally based employees also receive health, welfare, and retirement plans that are statutory-based, and in some instances, employees may choose to participate in plans that supplement the statutory benefits and are funded by the employee. To further encourage employees to prioritize their health, the Company sponsors events and benefits such as on-site flu vaccinations, health fairs, mobile preventative screenings, on-site fitness centers at certain Company locations, gym membership reimbursements, weight loss programs, and periodic health and fitness 12 competitions, which are often aligned with fundraising campaigns . The Company encourages all employees to give back to their communities and make a social impact through activities such as hosting on-site blood donation drives, donation drives for causes including cancer and autism, local holiday toy and giving drives, as well as food drives. The Company also participates in matching gift programs for certain charities. Additionally, we provide service awards to employees, which show appreciation and recognition to longstanding employees for certain service milestones. Early in the COVID-19 pandemic, certain of the Company customers delayed or cancelled orders due to both uncertainty in the economy and health concerns. During this time, the Company attempted to keep as many of its employees working as possible by shifting work responsibilities when possible; however, due to the impacts of the pandemic, approximately 20% of our employees worldwide were furloughed in April 2020. The Company also worked closely to accommodate employees requests to use the Families First Coronavirus Relief Act and the Family Medical Leave Act. As of February 28, 2021, less than 1% of our employees worldwide remain on furlough. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we implemented significant changes that we determined were in the best interest of our employees, as well as the communities in which we operate, and which comply with government regulations. This includes providing our office, support, and non-production staff the ability to work remotely from their homes. For our production staff, or for office and support staff who were unable to work remotely, we implemented several safety measures, including daily temperature checks, mandatory health questionnaire completion, social distancing, plexi-glass partitions between workstations, staggered lunch and break times, hand sanitizing stations throughout all buildings, mask/face coverings, and replaced air filters in all buildings to be complaint with COVID-19 standards. Item 1A-Risk Factors We have identified certain risk factors that apply to us. Each of the following risk factors should be carefully considered, as well as all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. If any of these risks, or other risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe not to be significant, develop into actual events, then our business, financial condition, liquidity, or results of operations could be adversely affected. If that happens, the market price of our common stock would likely decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Many of the foregoing risks and uncertainties are, and will continue to be, exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic and any worsening of the global business and economic environment as a result. Economic, Strategic and Market Risks Major public health issues, and specifically, the pandemic caused by the spread of COVID-19, could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations and other aspects of our business. The global spread of COVID-19 has created significant macroeconomic uncertainty, volatility, and disruption. In response, many governments have implemented policies intended to stop or slow the further spread of the disease and its variants, such as lockdowns, shelter-in-place, or restricted movement guidelines, and these measures may remain in place for an extended period of time. These policies have resulted in lower consumer and commercial activity across many markets in many geographic areas. Further, a global economic downturn, including increased unemployment, that may result from lower consumer and commercial activity may continue to decrease demand for our products. The spread of COVID-19 has caused us to modify our business practices (including employee travel, employee work locations, and cancellation of physical participation in meetings and events), and we may take further actions as may be required by government authorities or that we determine are in the best interests of our employees, customers, and business partners. There is no certainty that such measures will be sufficient to mitigate the risks posed by the virus or otherwise be satisfactory to government authorities. The extent to which the COVID-19 outbreak impacts our business, financial condition, results of operation or cash flows will depend on numerous evolving factors and future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including, but not limited to, the ultimate duration and scope of the pandemic; the severity of the virus, including the emergence of new variants, some of which may be more transmissible than the initial strain, the impact of the COVID-19 vaccines, including the speed at which they are disseminated and their effectiveness against the virus and the evolving strains; the actions taken by governments to contain the virus or treat its impact, 13 and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating conditions can resume. Even after the COVID-19 outbreak has subsided, we may continue to experience materially adverse impacts to our business as a result of its global economic impact, including any recession, economic downturn, or increased unemployment that has occurred or may occur in the future. One or more of our customers, distribution partners, service providers or suppliers may also experience financial distress, file for bankruptcy protection, go out of business, or suffer disruptions in their business due to the COVID-19 outbreak, and as a result, our operating revenues may be impacted. The Company could also experience other material impacts, including, but not limited to, charges from potential adjustments to the carrying value of inventory, asset impairment charges, and deferred tax valuation charges. There are no comparable recent events which may provide guidance as to the effect of the spread of COVID-19 and a global pandemic, and, as a result, the ultimate impact of this outbreak, or a similar health epidemic, is highly uncertain and subject to change. We do not yet know the full extent of the impacts on our business, our operations, or the global economy as a whole. However, the effects may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our businesses are highly competitive and face significant competition from Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) and direct imports by our retail and commercial customers. The markets for automotive electronics, consumer electronics, and biometric products are highly competitive across all product lines. We compete against many well-established companies, some of whom have substantially greater financial and engineering resources than we do. We compete directly with OEMs, including divisions of well-known automobile manufacturers, in the auto security, mobile video, and accessories markets. We believe that OEMs have diversified and improved their product offerings and placed increased sales pressure on new car dealers with whom they have close business relationships to purchase OEM-supplied equipment and accessories. To the extent that OEMs succeed in their efforts, this success would have a material adverse effect on our sales of automotive entertainment and security products to new car dealers. In addition, we compete with major retailers and commercial distributors within the consumer electronic and biometric industries who may at any time choose to direct import products that we may currently supply. OEM sales are dependent on the economic success of the automotive industry. A portion of our OEM sales are to automobile manufacturers. In the past, some domestic OEM manufacturers have reorganized their operations as a result of general economic conditions. Recently, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, many car manufacturers were required to temporarily shut-down their manufacturing facilities or operate at a reduced capacity, and supply chain issues in sourcing computer chips necessary for manufacturing new vehicles and certain automotive products has resulted in a global chip shortage, which could further delay or stall new vehicle production. There is no guarantee that additional automobile manufacturers will not face reorganizations again in the future. If additional reorganizations do take place and are not successful, it could have a material adverse effect on our OEM business. Sales in our businesses are dependent on new products, product development and consumer acceptance. Our businesses depend, to a large extent, on the introduction and availability of innovative products and technologies. If we are not able to continually introduce new products that achieve consumer acceptance, our sales and profit margins may decline. The impact of technological advancements may cause price erosion and adversely impact our profitability and inventory value. Since we do not manufacture all of our products and do not conduct all of our own research and development, we cannot assure that we will be able to source technologically advanced products in order to remain competitive. Furthermore, the introduction or expected introduction of new products or technologies may depress sales of existing products and technologies. This may result in declining prices and inventory obsolescence. Since we maintain a substantial investment in product inventory, declining prices and inventory obsolescence could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. 14 Our estimates of excess and obsolete inventory may prove to be inaccurate, in which case the provision required for excess and obsolete inventory may be understated or overstated. Although we make every effort to ensure the accuracy of our forecasts of future product demand, any significant unanticipated changes in demand or technological developments could have a significant impact on the value of our inventory and operating results. We purchase a significant amount of our products from suppliers in Pacific Rim countries and we are subject to the economic risks associated with inherent changes in the social, political, regulatory, and economic conditions not only in these countries, but also in other countries we do business in, including our own. We import most of our products from suppliers in the Pacific Rim. Countries in the Pacific Rim have, in the past, experienced significant social, political, geographic, and economic upheaval. Due to the large concentrations of our purchases in Pacific Rim countries, particularly China, Hong Kong, South Korea, Vietnam, Malaysia and Taiwan, any adverse changes in the social, political, regulatory, or economic conditions in these countries may materially increase the cost of the products that we buy from our foreign suppliers or delay shipments of products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our dependence on foreign suppliers forces us to order products further in advance than we would if our products were manufactured domestically. This increases the risk that our products will become obsolete or face selling price reductions before we can sell our inventory. Our business, and that of our suppliers in these countries and elsewhere, are subject to the impact of natural catastrophic events such as earthquakes, floods or power outages, political crises such as terrorism or war, and public health crises, such as disease outbreaks, epidemics, or pandemics in the U.S. and global economies. Currently, the rapid spread of COVID-19 globally has resulted in increased travel restrictions and disruption and shutdown of businesses. Our business relies on raw materials, components, and finished goods provided by our suppliers. If additional quarantining measures cause delays along our supply chain, we will likely experience a slow-down in our business as a result. The United States, Mexico, and Canada entered into a signed trade agreement called The United States - Mexico - Canada Agreement ( USMCA ) that became effective on July 1, 2020. The USMCA governs trade in North America and replaced the North American Free Trade Agreement ("NAFTA"). Compared to the previous NAFTA trade agreement, USMCA will increase environmental and labor regulations and will create incentives for more U.S. production of cars and trucks and impose a quota for Canadian and Mexico automotive production. Although we have determined that there have been no current immediate effects on our operations with respect to USMCA, we cannot predict future developments in the political climate involving the United States, Mexico, and Canada and thus these may have an adverse and material impact on our operations and financial growth. The United States Government under former President Donald J. Trump imposed new tariffs on certain foreign goods imported from China and certain other countries, and increasingly levied sanctions and export controls on China and certain other countries. Such actions have, in many cases, led to retaliatory trade measures by China and other foreign governments. Such policies could make it more difficult or costly for us to do business in or import our products from those countries. In turn, we may need to raise prices or make changes to our operations, which could negatively impact our revenue or operating results. The new administration in Washington D.C. may likely take a different view on tariffs with China and other nations than the preceding administration, but the impact of any changes cannot be accurately predicted at this time. A commercial market for biometrics technology is still developing. There can be no assurance our iris-based identity authentication technology will be successful or achieve market acceptance. A component of our strategy to grow revenue includes expansion of our iris-based identity authentication solutions into commercial markets. To date, biometrics technology has received only limited acceptance in such markets. Although the recent appearance of biometric readers on popular consumer products, such as smartphones, has increased interest in biometrics as a means of authenticating and/or identifying individuals, commercial markets for biometrics technology are still developing and evolving. Biometrics-based solutions compete with more traditional security methods including keys, cards, personal identification numbers and security personnel. Acceptance of biometrics as an alternative to such traditional methods depends upon a number of factors, including: the cost, performance and reliability of our products and services and the products and services offered by our competitors; 15 the continued growth in demand for biometrics solutions within the government and law enforcement markets as well as the development and growth of demand for biometric solutions in markets outside of government and law enforcement; customers perceptions regarding the benefits of biometrics solutions; public perceptions regarding the intrusiveness of these solutions and the manner in which organizations use the biometric information collected; public perceptions regarding the confidentiality of private information; proposed or enacted legislation related to privacy of information; customers satisfaction with biometrics solutions; and marketing efforts and publicity regarding biometrics solutions. We face intense competition from other biometrics solutions providers. A significant number of established companies have developed or are developing and marketing software and hardware for biometrics products and applications, including facial recognition, fingerprint biometrics, and other iris authentication competitors that currently compete with, or will compete directly with, our iris-based identity authentication solutions. We believe that additional competitors will enter the biometrics market and become significant long-term competitors, and that as a result, competition will increase. Companies competing with us may introduce solutions that are competitively priced, have increased performance or functionality or incorporate technological advances we have not yet developed or implemented. Our success will depend on a less diversified line of business. Currently, we generate substantially all of our sales from the Automotive Electronic and Consumer Electronic segments. We cannot assure you that we can grow the revenues of our Automotive Electronic, Consumer Electronic, and Biometrics segments or maintain profitability. As a result, the Company's revenues and profitability will depend on our ability to maintain and generate additional customers and develop new products. A reduction in demand for our existing products would have a material adverse effect on our business. The sustainability of current levels of our Automotive Electronics, Consumer Electronics, and Biometrics segments and the future growth of such revenues, if any, will depend on, among other factors: the overall performance of the economy and discretionary consumer spending, competition within key markets, customer acceptance of newly developed products and services, and the demand for other products and services. We cannot assure you that we will maintain or increase our current level of revenues or profits from the Automotive Electronic and Consumer Electronic businesses, or that we will increase revenues and improve profitability in the Biometric business in future periods. We depend on a small number of key customers for a large percentage of our sales. The electronics industry is characterized by a number of key customers. Specifically, 30% of our sales were to five customers in Fiscal 2021, 24% in Fiscal 2020, and 25% in Fiscal 2019. The loss of one or more of these customers could have a material adverse impact on our business. The international marketing and distribution of our products subjects us to risks associated with international operations, including exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. As part of our business strategy, we intend to continue to increase our sales, including our international sales, although we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. Approximately 15% of our net sales currently originate in markets outside the U.S. While geographic diversity helps to reduce the Company's exposure to risk in any one country or part of the world, it also means that we are subject to the full range of risks associated with international operations, including, but not limited to: changes in exchange rates for foreign countries, which may reduce the U.S. dollar value of revenues, profits, and cash flows we receive from non-U.S. markets or increase our supply costs, as measured in U.S. dollars, in those markets; 16 exchange controls and other limits on our ability to import raw materials or finished product or to repatriate earnings from overseas; political and economic instability, social or labor unrest or changing macroeconomic conditions in our markets; foreign ownership restrictions and the potential for nationalization or expropriation of property or other resources; and other foreign or domestic legal and regulatory requirements, including those resulting in potentially adverse tax consequences or other imposition of onerous trade restrictions, price controls or other government controls. These risks could have a significant impact on our ability to sell our products on a competitive basis in international markets and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In an effort to reduce the impact on earnings of foreign currency rate movements, we engage in a combination of cost-containment measures and selective hedging of foreign currency transactions. However, these measures may not succeed in offsetting any negative impact of foreign currency rate movements on our business and results of operations. For example, since 2010, Venezuela has been designated as hyperinflationary and the resulting currency devaluations in Venezuela in that initial year affected our business and results of operations. The government of Venezuela has also devalued its currency several times since 2013, which, as discussed in the next section, has also affected our business and results of operations. Substantial political and economic uncertainty in Venezuela puts our local assets at risk. We have a subsidiary in Venezuela, whose operations have been suspended due to the economic and political climate in that country. We hold fixed assets at this subsidiary and have incurred impairments related to our long-lived assets in Venezuela in the past, as well as charges totaling $3,473 during Fiscal 2019. The net book value of these assets was $0 as of February 28, 2021 and February 29, 2020. The Company intends to continue to hold these assets with the hope of recovering value from them in the future; however, if conditions continue to deteriorate, we may be at risk of government confiscation of these assets. Conditions in the global economy, the geographic markets we serve, and the financial markets may adversely affect us. The current global financial market situation, as well as various social and political circumstances in the U.S. and around the world, including wars and other forms of conflict, terrorist acts, security operations and catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes and global health epidemics (including COVID-19 currently affecting the global community), may contribute to increased market volatility and economic uncertainties or deterioration in the U.S. and worldwide. Deterioration in the economic conditions in the Eurozone and globally, including instability in financial markets, may pose a risk to our business. In recent years, financial markets have been affected at times by a number of global macroeconomic and political events, including the following: large sovereign debts and fiscal deficits of several countries in Europe and in emerging market jurisdictions, high levels of non-performing loans on the balance sheets of European banks, the effect of the United Kingdom exiting the European Union in 2020, the potential effect of any other European country leaving the Eurozone, market volatility and loss of investor confidence driven by political events, and the global outbreak of COVID-19. Market and economic disruptions have affected, and may in the future affect, consumer confidence levels and spending, personal bankruptcy rates, levels of incurrence and default on consumer debt, and home prices, among other factors. We cannot assure you that market disruptions in Europe, including the increased cost of funding for certain governments and financial institutions, will not impact the global economy, and we cannot assure you that assistance packages will be available, or if available, be sufficient to stabilize countries and markets in Europe or elsewhere affected by a financial crisis. To the extent uncertainty regarding any economic recovery in Europe negatively impacts consumer confidence and consumer credit factors, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be significantly and adversely affected. The Chinese capital markets have also experienced periods of instability over the past several years. The current political climate has also intensified concerns about the potential effects of the trade war between the U.S. and China in connection with each country recent or proposed tariffs on the other country products and it is unclear at this 17 time how the U.S. Government administration under President Joseph Biden will approach these matters . These market and economic disruptions have affected, and may in the future affect, the U.S. capital markets, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition , or results of operations. Changes in the retail industry could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. In recent years, the retail industry has experienced consolidation, store closures, bankruptcies, and other ownership changes. In the future, retailers in the United States and in foreign markets may further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, or realign their affiliations, any of which could decrease the number of stores that carry our products. Changing shopping patterns, including the rapid expansion of online retail shopping, have adversely affected customer traffic in mall and outlet centers. We expect competition in the e-commerce market will continue to intensify. As a greater portion of consumer expenditures with retailers occurs online and through mobile commerce applications, our brick-and-mortar wholesale customers who fail to successfully integrate their physical retail stores and digital retail may experience financial difficulties, including store closures, bankruptcies, or liquidations. We cannot control the success of individual malls, and an increase in store closures by other retailers may lead to store vacancies and reduced foot traffic. A continuation or worsening of these trends could have a material adverse effect on our sales, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. We invest, from time to time, in marketable securities and other investments as part of our investing activities. These investments fluctuate in value based on economic, operational, competitive, political, and technological factors. These investments could be subject to loss or impairment based on their performance. The Company has incurred other-than-temporary impairments on its investments in the past, and continues to monitor investments in non-controlled corporations, as applicable, for potential future impairments. In addition, there is no guarantee that the fair values recorded for other investments will be sustained in the future. During the year ended February 28, 2019, the Company incurred impairment charges related to an investment held at cost, less impairment. The Company did not have any investments held at cost, less impairment at February 28, 2021 or February 29, 2020. See Note 1(f) for impairment charges recorded and related disclosure. From time to time, we provide funding to certain entities in the form of loans. Based on the performance of these entities, these loans may become partially or entirely uncollectible. The Company has, from time to time, provided funding to certain entities that it owns and controls, or does not own or control, in the form of collateralized loans. Should the borrowers default on the loans and should the collateral be insufficient to satisfy the total outstanding balance owed to Voxx, we may not be able to recover 100% of these loan balances. During the year ended February 28, 2019, certain notes receivable held by the Company became uncollectible, and the value of the collateral was insufficient, resulting in an impairment charge related to these notes. See Note 1(f) for impairment charges recorded and related disclosure. We had loans outstanding, including principal and interest of $72,525, from our majority owned subsidiary, EyeLock LLC, at February 28, 2021. We must comply with restrictive covenants in our debt agreements. Our existing debt agreements contain certain covenants that limit our ability to, among other things, borrow additional money, pay dividends, dispose of assets, and acquire new businesses. These covenants also require us to maintain a specified fixed charge coverage ratio. If the Company is unable to comply with these covenants, there would be a default under these debt agreements. Changes in economic or business conditions, results of operations, or other factors could cause the Company to default under its debt agreements. A default, if not waived by our lenders, could result in acceleration of our debt and possible bankruptcy, should we have debt outstanding. We have recorded, and may record in the future, goodwill, and other intangible assets as a result of acquisitions, and changes in future business conditions could cause these investments to become impaired, requiring substantial write-downs that would reduce our operating income. 18 We evaluate the recoverability of recorded goodwill and other intangible asset amounts annually, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. The annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. We have experienced significant impairment charges in past years (see Note 1(k)). Additional future impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of our business or product lines, adverse market conditions and changes in the competitive landscape, and a variety of other circumstances. The amount of any impairment is recorded as a charge to our statement of operations. We may never realize the full value of our goodwill and intangible assets, and any determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of these assets may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If our sales during the holiday season fall below our expectations, our annual results could also fall below expectations. Seasonal consumer shopping patterns significantly affect our business. We generally make a substantial amount of our sales and net income during September, October, and November. We expect this trend to continue. December is also a key month for us, due largely to the increase in promotional activities by our customers during the holiday season. If the economy faltered in these periods, if our customers altered the timing or frequency of their promotional activities, or if the effectiveness of these promotional activities declined, particularly around the holiday season, it could have a material adverse effect on our annual financial results. Legal and Regulatory Risks There is no guarantee that patent/royalty rights will be renewed, or licensing agreements will be maintained. Certain product development and revenues are dependent on the ownership and or use of various patents, licenses, and license agreements. If the Company is not able to successfully renew or renegotiate these rights, we may suffer from a loss of product sales or royalty revenue associated with these rights or incur additional expense to pursue alternative arrangements. We are subject to governmental regulations. We always face the possibility of new governmental regulations which could have a substantial effect on our operations and profitability. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains provisions to improve transparency and accountability concerning the supply of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. There are costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including for due diligence to determine the sources of conflict minerals used in our products and other potential changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. These rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. As there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering "conflict free" conflict minerals, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary conflict minerals from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Also, we may face reputational challenges if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products through the procedures we implement. A data privacy breach could damage our reputation and customer relationships, expose us to litigation risk and potential fines, and adversely affect our business. We and our business partners maintain significant amounts of data electronically in locations around the world. This data relates to all aspects of our business, including current and future products and initiatives under development, and contains confidential, propriety, non-public, and personal customer, consumer, supplier, partner, and employee data, which we collect, process, transmit, and, where appropriate, retain as part of our normal operations. We maintain systems, protocols, and processes designed to protect this data. Despite the security measures we and our partners have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of our third-party service providers and partners, are vulnerable to security breaches, cyber-attacks, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human error, or other similar events. Threat actors attempt to breach our security systems to gain access to our data and infrastructure through various techniques, including phishing, ransomware, and other targeted attacks. The risk of such attacks includes attempted breaches not only of our systems, but also those of our business partners, customers, clients, and suppliers. The techniques used to obtain unauthorized access are constantly changing, are becoming increasingly more sophisticated, and often are not recognized until after an 19 exploitation of information has occurred. Therefore, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement sufficient preventative measures, which may have a material adverse effect on our Company. The Company has retained and, in the future, may retain third-party experts to assist with the containment of, and response to, security incidents and, in coordination with law enforcement, with the investigation of such incidents. The Company has incurred, and may continue to incur, costs to retain such third-party experts in connection with any such incidents. We may also find it necessary to make significant further investments to protect our information and our infrastructure. These investments, and the costs we incur in connection with security incidents, could be material. As we publicly announced on September 28, 2020, we had previously identified, immediately investigated, and addressed a security incident that occurred on July 7, 2020, that resulted in data related to current and former employees (and their beneficiaries) and contractors stored on certain devices becoming encrypted by ransomware. The incident was promptly addressed and remediated. While we do not believe this or any cybersecurity incident has resulted in any material impact on our business, operations, or financial results, or on our ability to service our customers or run our business, future incidents resulting in unauthorized access to our facilities or information technology systems, networks or infrastructure (or those of our customers, vendors, or other business partners) could result in, among other things, a total shutdown of our systems that would disrupt our ability to conduct business or pay vendors and employees. Further, if we or third parties with which we do business were to fall victim to a successful security breach involving the misappropriation, loss, or unauthorized disclosure of confidential, proprietary, or personal information, whether belonging to us or our vendors, customers, or other third-party business partners, such a breach could result in significant legal and remediation expenses, violate applicable laws and regulations, severely damage our reputation and our customer relationships, harm sales, increase our cybersecurity and other insurance premiums, expose us to risks of litigation and liability, and result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, cybersecurity incidents and data security breaches could lead to unfavorable publicity, governmental inquiry and oversight, litigation by affected parties, and possible financial obligations for damages related to the theft or misuse of such information, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and cash flow. We may face regulatory data protection, data security, and privacy risks in connection with our operations under, or failure to comply with, applicable data privacy laws and regulations. Strict data privacy laws regulating the collection, transmission, storage, disclosure and use of personal information are evolving in the United States, the European Union, the UK, Canada, and other jurisdictions in which we operate. Privacy laws, including the General Data Protection Regulations in the European Union and the UK and the California Consumer Privacy Act ("CCPA"), create new individual privacy rights and impose increased obligations on companies handling personal data. The CCPA, which became effective on January 1, 2020, grants individuals the right to access, request deletion of, and opt out of the sale of personal information and creates a private right of action for the unauthorized access and exfiltration, theft, or disclosure of certain types of personal information, including the right to seek statutory damages, among other things. In 2020, the Court of Justice for the European Union invalidated mechanisms for transferring personal information out of the European Union, leading to a wave of potential new barriers for data sharing between the European Union and other countries, including the United States. These changes in the legal and regulatory environments in the areas of customer and employee privacy, data security, and cross-border data flows could have a material adverse effect on our business, primarily through (i) the impairment of our transaction processing activities, (ii) the limitation on the types of information that we may collect, process and retain, (iii) the resulting costs of complying with such legal and regulatory requirements, and (iv) the potential monetary penalties for noncompliance. In addition, the federal privacy and security regulations issued under HIPAA require our facilities to comply with extensive requirements on the use and disclosure of protected health information, and implement and maintain administrative, physical, and technical safeguards to protect the security of such information. A change in applicable privacy or security laws or regulations could require us to devote significant management and operational resources, and expend significant additional financial resources, to upgrade the security measures that we employ to comply with such change. Consequently, we may incur significant costs related to ensuring 20 compliance with applicable laws regarding the protection of personal information . The potential costs of non-compliance with these laws and regulations may include significant penalties. In addition, new and existing regulations and policies may affect the use of our products and services and could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Our products could infringe the intellectual property rights of others and we may be exposed to costly litigation. The products we sell are continually changing as a result of improved technology. Although we and our suppliers attempt to avoid infringing known proprietary rights of third parties in our products, we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims for alleged infringement by us, our suppliers, or our distributors, of a third party patents, trade secrets, trademarks, or copyrights. Any claims relating to the infringement of third-party proprietary rights, even if not meritorious, could result in costly litigation, divert management attention and resources, or require us to either enter into royalty or license agreements which are not advantageous to us or pay material amounts of damages. In addition, parties making these claims may be able to obtain an injunction, which could prevent us from selling our products. We may increasingly be subject to infringement claims as we expand our product offerings. Operational Risks A portion of our workforce is represented by labor unions. Collective bargaining agreements can increase our expenses. Labor disruptions could adversely affect our operations. As of February 28, 2021, 41 of our full-time employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. We cannot predict whether labor unions may be successful in organizing other portions of our workforce or what additional costs we could incur as a result. We depend on our suppliers to provide us with adequate quantities of high-quality competitive products and/or component parts on a timely basis. We have few long-term contracts with our suppliers. Most of our products and component parts are imported from suppliers under short-term purchase orders. Accordingly, we can give no assurance that: our supplier relationships will continue as presently in effect; our suppliers will be able to obtain the components necessary to produce high-quality, technologically-advanced products for us; we will be able to obtain adequate alternatives to our supply sources, should they be interrupted; if obtained, alternatively sourced products of satisfactory quality would be delivered on a timely basis, competitively priced, comparably featured, or acceptable to our customers; our suppliers have sufficient financial resources to fulfill their obligations; our suppliers will be able to obtain raw materials and labor necessary for production; shipments from our suppliers will not be affected by labor disputes within the shipping and transportation industries; our suppliers would not be impacted by natural disasters directly or via their supply chains; and as it relates to products we do not manufacture, our suppliers will not become our competitors. On occasion, our suppliers have not been able to produce the quantities of products or component parts that we desire. Our inability to manufacture and/or supply sufficient quantities of products that are in demand could reduce our profitability and have a material adverse effect on our relationships with our customers. If any of our supplier relationships were terminated or interrupted, we could experience an immediate or long-term supply shortage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have few long-term sales contracts with our customers that contain guaranteed customer purchase commitments. Sales of many of our products are made by purchase orders and are terminable at will by either party. We do have long-term sales contracts with certain customers; however, these contracts do not require the customers to guarantee 21 specific levels of product purchases over the term of the contracts. The unexpected loss of all or a significant portion of sales to any one of our large customers could have a material adverse effect on our performance. We are increasingly dependent on the continuous and reliable operation of our information technology systems, and a disruption of these systems resulting from cybersecurity attacks or other events could adversely affect our business. We increasingly depend on our information technology, or IT, infrastructure in order to achieve our business objectives. To meet these business objectives, the Company relies on our information technology systems and those of our third-party business partners to process and store sensitive data, including confidential research, business plans, financial information, intellectual property, and personal data. The secure operation of these systems and products, including the protection of the information they process, is critical to our business operations and strategy. Our customers and business partners rely on the security of our infrastructure, including hardware and other elements provided by third parties, to ensure the reliability of our products and the protection of their data. The extensive cybersecurity threats which affect companies globally pose a risk to the security and availability of these IT systems and the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of confidential, proprietary, and personal data. To date, the Company has not experienced any material impact to its business or operations resulting from a data breach or cybersecurity attack. However, because of frequently changing attack techniques, along with the increased volume and sophistication of the attacks, there is the potential for the Company to be adversely impacted. If we experience a cyberattack that impairs our IT infrastructure, such as a computer virus, a problem with the functioning of an important IT application, or an intentional disruption of our IT systems by a third party, the resulting disruptions could impede our ability to record or process orders, manufacture, and ship in a timely manner, or otherwise carry on our business in the ordinary course. Any such events could cause us to lose customers or revenue and could require us to incur significant remediation expense. Furthermore, although the Company maintains insurance coverage for various cybersecurity and business continuity risks, there can be no guarantee that all costs or losses incurred will be fully insured. Our computer systems are subject to penetration and our security and data protection measures may not prevent unauthorized access. Threats to our systems and our associated third parties systems can result from human error, fraud, or malice on the part of employees or third parties, as well as from accidental technological failure. Despite security measures, computer viruses, malware, and other hacking programs and devices may cause significant damage, delays or interruptions to our systems and operations or to certain of the products we sell, resulting in damage to our reputation and brand names. Although the Company has business continuity plans in place, if these plans do not provide effective alternative processes on a timely basis, the Company may suffer interruptions in its ability to manage or conduct its operations, which may adversely affect its business. The Company may need to expend additional resources in the future to continue to protect against, or to address problems caused by, any business interruptions or security breaches. Any business interruptions or data security breaches (including cybersecurity breaches resulting in private data disclosure) could result in lawsuits or regulatory proceedings, damage our reputation, or adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. A failure to keep pace with developments in technology could impair our operations or competitive position. Our business continues to demand the use of sophisticated systems and technology. If we are unable to timely update and replace our systems and technology with more advanced systems on a regular basis in order for us to meet our customers demands and expectations, or if we are unable to appropriately and timely train our employees to operate any of these new systems, our business could suffer. We also may not achieve the benefits that we anticipate from any new system or technology implemented by us, and a failure to do so could result in higher than anticipated costs or could impair our operating results. We are continuously working to upgrade our information technology systems and provide employee awareness training around phishing, malware, and other cyber risks to protect our customer, employee, and company data against cyber risks and security breaches. Despite these efforts, there is no guarantee that the procedures that we have implemented to protect against unauthorized access to secured data are adequate to safeguard against future data security breaches. Because of the frequently changing attack techniques, along with the increased volume and sophistication of the attacks, there is the potential for the Company to be adversely impacted. Moreover, because the techniques used to gain access to or sabotage systems often are not recognized until launched against a target, we 22 may be unable to anticipate the methods necessary to defend against these types of attacks, and we cannot predict the extent, frequency or impact these attacks may have on us. To the extent our business is interrupted, this impact could include reputational, competitive, operational, or other business harm as well as financial costs and regulatory action. Further, the theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information as a result of such an incident could adversely affect our competitive position. Remote working arrangements driven by the COVID-19 pandemic could significantly increase the Company digital and cybersecurity risks. The COVID-19 pandemic has caused us to modify our business practices. In response to mandates and/or recommendations from federal, state, and local authorities, as well as our concern for the health and safety of our employees, we temporarily closed or reduced operations in many of our locations. With the continuing COVID-19-driven shift to remote working, and the use of virtual board and executive management meetings, cybersecurity risks are exponentially greater. Social distancing measures restricting the ability of our employees to work at our offices create an increased demand for information technology resources, and thus may increase the risk of phishing and other cybersecurity attacks as well as increase the risk of unauthorized dissemination of sensitive personal information or proprietary or confidential information about us or our customers, employees, or business partners. Despite our cybersecurity measures, we may be more susceptible to security breaches and other security incidents because we have less capability to implement, monitor, and enforce our information security and data protection policies. Techniques or software used to gain unauthorized access, and/or disable, degrade, or harm our systems may be difficult to detect for prolonged periods of time, and we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or put in place protective or preventive measures. The damage or disruption of our systems, or the theft or compromise of our technology, data, or intellectual property, may negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations, reputation, stock price and long-term value. Any such event may also expose us to costly remediation, litigation, and regulatory investigations or actions by state and federal authorities as well as non-US authorities, interference with the Company's operations, and damage to the Company's reputation, which could adversely affect the Company's business. We are responsible for product warranties and defects. Whether we outsource manufacturing or manufacture products directly for our customers, we provide warranties for all of our products, for which we have provided an estimated liability. Therefore, we are highly dependent on the quality of our suppliers products. If we experience an increase in warranty claims, or if our costs associated with such warranty claims increase significantly, we will begin to incur liabilities for warranty claims after the sale of our products at levels that we have not previously incurred or anticipated. In addition, an increase in the frequency of our warranty claims or amount of warranty costs may harm our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We provide financial support to one of our subsidiaries through an intercompany loan agreement and may need to secure additional financing for our own operations, but we cannot be sure that additional financing will be available. We have an intercompany loan agreement with our majority owned subsidiary, EyeLock LLC, which is expected to continue to require additional funding beyond one year. In funding the loan to EyeLock LLC, we have less cash flow available to support our domestic operations and other activities. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows in the future to support our operations and service our debt as a result of funding EyeLock LLC, we may be required to refinance all or a portion of our existing debt, as applicable, or to obtain additional financing. There can be no assurance that any refinancing will be possible or that any additional financing could be obtained on acceptable terms. The inability to service or refinance our existing debt or to obtain additional financing would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. 23 Our capital resources may not be sufficient to meet our future capital and liquidity requirements. We believe our current funds and available credit lines would provide sufficient resources to fund our existing operations for the foreseeable future. However, we may need additional capital to operate our business if: market conditions change, our business plans or assumptions change, we make significant acquisitions, we need to make significant increases in capital expenditures or working capital, our restrictive covenants do not provide sufficient credit, or we need to continue to provide financial support to EyeLock LLC for an extended period of time. Acquisitions and strategic investments may divert our resources and management attention; results may fall short of expectations. We intend to continue pursuing selected acquisitions of, and investments in, businesses, technologies, and product lines as a component of our growth strategy. Any future acquisition or investment may result in the use of significant amounts of cash, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, or the incurrence of debt and amortization expenses related to intangible assets. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: difficulties in the integration and assimilation of the operations, technologies, products, and personnel of an acquired business; diversion of management attention from other business concerns; increased expenses associated with the acquisition, and potential loss of key employees or customers of any acquired business. We cannot assure you that our acquisitions will be successful and will not adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. We depend heavily on existing directors, management and key personnel and our ability to recruit and retain qualified personnel. Our success depends on the continued efforts of our directors, executives, and senior vice presidents, many of whom have worked with VOXX International Corporation for several decades, as well as our other executive officers and key employees. We have employment contracts with most of our executive officers. The loss or interruption of the continued full-time service of certain of our executive officers and key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, to support our continued growth, we must effectively recruit, develop, and retain additional qualified personnel both domestically and internationally. Our inability to attract and retain necessary qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be unable to collect amounts owed to us by our customers. We typically grant our customers credit on a short-term basis. Related credit risks are inherent as we do not typically collateralize receivables due from customers. We provide estimates for uncollectible accounts based primarily on our judgment using historical losses, current economic conditions, and individual evaluations of each customer as evidence supporting the collectability of the receivables valuations stated on our financial statements. However, our receivables valuation estimates may not be accurate and receivables due from customers reflected in our financial statements may not be collectible. Our inability to perform under our contractual obligations, or our customers inability or unwillingness to fulfill their contractual commitments to us, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to the Ownership of our Common Stock 24 Our stock price could fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly in response to various factors and events, including: operating results being below market expectations, announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, loss of a major customer or supplier, changes in, or our failure to meet, financial estimates by securities analysts, industry developments, economic and other external factors, general downgrading of our industry sector by securities analysts, acquisitions and dispositions, ability to integrate acquisitions, and inventory write-downs. In addition, the securities markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations over the past several years that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. John J. Shalam, our Chairman, controls a significant portion of the voting power of our common stock and can exercise control over our affairs . Mr. Shalam beneficially owns approximately 52.8% of the combined voting power of both classes of common stock. This will allow him to elect the majority of our Board of Directors and, in general, determine the outcome of any other matter submitted to the stockholders for approval. Mr. Shalam's voting power may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company. We have two classes of common stock: Class A common stock, which is traded on the NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol VOXX, and Class B common stock, which is not publicly traded and substantially all of which is beneficially owned by Mr. Shalam. Each share of Class A common stock is entitled to one vote per share and each share of Class B common stock is entitled to ten votes per share. Class A shareholders vote separately for the election/removal of the Class A directors, while both classes vote together as a single class on all other matters and as otherwise may be required by Delaware law. Since our charter permits shareholder action by written consent, Mr. Shalam may be able to take significant corporate actions without prior notice and a shareholder meeting. We exercise our option for the "controlled company" exemption under NASDAQ rules. The Company has exercised its right to the "controlled company" exemption under NASDAQ rules which enables us to forego certain NASDAQ requirements which include: (i) maintaining a majority of independent directors; (ii) electing a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors; (iii) ensuring the compensation of our executive officers is determined by a majority of independent directors or a compensation committee composed solely of independent directors; and (iv) selecting, or recommending for the Board's selection, director nominees, either by a majority of the independent directors or a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors. Although we do not maintain a nominating committee and do not have a majority of independent directors, the Company notes that at the present time we do maintain a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors who approve executive compensation, and the recommendations for director nominees are governed by a majority of independent directors. However, election of the "controlled company" exemption under NASDAQ rules allows us to modify our position at any time. General Risks A decline in general economic conditions could lead to reduced consumer demand for the discretionary products we sell. Consumer spending patterns, especially discretionary spending for products such as mobile, consumer, and accessory electronics, are affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions, energy costs, raw material costs, wage rates, inflation, consumer confidence, and consumer perception of economic conditions. A general slowdown in the U.S. and certain international economies or an uncertain economic outlook could have a material adverse effect on our sales and operating results. 25 Our cash and cash equivalents could be adversely affected if the financial institutions in which we hold our cash and cash equivalents fail. Our cash and cash equivalents consist of demand deposits and highly liquid money market funds with original maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase. We maintain the cash and cash equivalents with major financial institutions. Some deposits with these banks exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") insurance limits or similar limits in foreign jurisdictions. While we monitor daily the cash balances in the operating accounts and adjust the balances as appropriate, these balances could be impacted if one or more of the financial institutions with which we deposit fails or is subject to other adverse conditions in the financial or credit markets. To date, we have experienced no loss or lack of access to our invested cash or cash equivalents; however, we can provide no assurance that access to our invested cash and cash equivalents will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial and credit markets. Our business could be affected by unseasonal or severe weather-related factors. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by weather-related factors. Adverse weather conditions and extreme seasonal fluctuations may deter or prevent patrons from reaching facilities where our products are sold, or negatively affect customer demand for certain products. Although our budget assumes certain seasonal fluctuations in our revenues to ensure adequate cash flow during expected periods of lower revenues, we cannot ensure that weather-related factors will not have a material adverse effect on our operations. Other Risks Other risks and uncertainties include: additional changes in U.S. federal, state, and local law, our ability to implement operating cost structures that align with revenue growth, additional trade sanctions against or from foreign countries, successful integration of business acquisitions and new brands in our distribution network, compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and compliance with complex financial accounting and tax standards, both foreign and domestic. Item 1B-Unresolved Staff Comments As of the filing of this annual report on Form 10-K, there were no unresolved comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Item 2-Properties Our Corporate headquarters is located at 2351 J. Lawson Blvd. in Orlando, Florida, which is owned by the Company, and also serves as a manufacturing facility for its automotive electronic business. In addition, as of February 28, 2021, the Company leased a total of 19 operating facilities or offices located in 8 states as well as China, Canada, Mexico, France, Germany, and Hong Kong. The leases have been classified as operating leases. Within the United States, the Company leased facilities are located in Georgia, New York, California, Ohio, North Carolina, Florida, Texas, and Arkansas. The Company also owns 8 of its operating facilities or offices (including its Corporate headquarters and automotive manufacturing facility in Florida), located in New York, Indiana, Michigan, and Arkansas in the United States, as well as in Germany and Venezuela. These facilities serve as offices, warehouses, manufacturing facilities and distribution centers. Additionally, we utilize public warehouse facilities located in Virginia, Nevada, Indiana, Florida, Mexico, China, the Netherlands, Germany, and Canada. Item 3-Legal Proceedings The Company is currently, and has in the past, been a party to various routine legal proceedings incident to the ordinary course of business. If management determines, based on the underlying facts and circumstances of each matter, that it is probable a loss will result from a litigation contingency and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated, the estimated loss is accrued for. The Company does not believe that any outstanding litigation will have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial statements, individually or in the aggregate. The products the Company sells are continually changing as a result of improved technology. As a result, although the Company and its suppliers attempt to avoid infringing known proprietary rights, the Company may be subject to 26 legal proceedings and claims for alleged infringement by patent, trademark , or other intellectual property owners. Any claims relating to the infringement of third-party proprietary rights, even if not meritorious, could result in costly litigation, divert management attention and resources, or require the Company to either enter into royalty or license agreements which are not advantageous to the Company or pay material amounts of damages. Item 4-Mine Safety Disclosure Not applicable. PART II Item 5-Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information The Class A Common Stock of Voxx is traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol "VOXX." The following table sets forth the low and high sale price of our Class A Common Stock, based on the last daily sale in each of the last eight fiscal quarters: Year ended February 28, 2021 High Low First Quarter $ 5.77 $ 1.83 Second Quarter 7.14 4.87 Third Quarter 13.87 5.71 Fourth Quarter 27.18 11.79 Year ended February 29, 2020 High Low First Quarter $ 4.97 $ 3.55 Second Quarter 4.86 3.50 Third Quarter 5.16 4.17 Fourth Quarter 4.79 3.30 Dividends We have not paid or declared any cash dividends on our common stock. We have retained all our earnings for use in developing our business. Future cash dividends, if any, will be paid at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend, among other things, upon our future operations and earnings, capital requirements and surplus, general financial condition, contractual restrictions, and such other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant giving consideration to any requirements or restrictions under the Company's credit agreements (see Note 7(a) to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Holders There are 670 holders of record of our Class A Common Stock and 4 holders of Class B Convertible Common Stock. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities In April 2019, the Company was authorized by the Board of Directors to increase the number of Class A Common Shares available for repurchase in connection with its share repurchase program (the Program ) to 3,000,000. During the year ended February 29, 2020, the Company purchased 581,124 shares of its Class A Common Stock for an aggregate cost of $2,742. During the years ended February 28, 2021 and February 28, 2019, the Company did not purchase any shares. As of February 28, 2021, the cumulative total of acquired shares (net of reissuances of 11,635) pursuant to the Program was 2,749,218, with a cumulative value of $23,918. The remaining authorized share repurchase balance is 2,418,876 at February 28, 2021. 27 Performance Graph The following table compares the annual percentage change in our cumulative total stockholder return on our Class A common stock during the period commencing on February 29, 2016 and ending on February 28, 2021 with the cumulative total return of the Nasdaq Stock Market (U.S.) Index and our SIC Code Index, during such period. 28 Item 6-Selected Consol idated Financial Data The following selected consolidated financial data for the last five years should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of this Form 10-K. The Company's financial statements for Fiscal 2017 presented herein have been recast to reflect a certain business that was classified as discontinued operations during the second quarter of Fiscal 2018. Year Ended Year Ended Year Ended Year Ended Year Ended February 28, 2021 (1) February 29, 2020 (1),(4) February 28, 2019 (1),(2) February 28, 2018 (3) February 28, 2017 Consolidated Statement of Operations Data Net sales $ 563,605 $ 394,889 $ 446,816 $ 507,092 $ 514,530 Operating income (loss) 22,479 (50,303 ) (42,013 ) (19,099 ) (8,168 ) Net income (loss) from continuing operations 23,366 (41,822 ) (52,832 ) (6,659 ) (9,268 ) Net income from discontinued operations, net of taxes 34,618 6,066 Net income (loss) attributable to VOXX International Corporation 26,767 (26,443 ) (46,091 ) 35,304 4,422 Earnings (loss) per share - basic: Continuing operations $ 1.11 $ (1.08 ) $ (1.89 ) $ 0.03 $ (0.07 ) Discontinued operations $ $ $ $ 1.43 $ 0.25 Attributable to VOXX International Corporation $ 1.11 $ (1.08 ) $ (1.89 ) $ 1.45 $ 0.18 Earnings (loss) per share - diluted: Continuing operations $ 1.09 $ (1.08 ) $ (1.89 ) $ 0.03 $ (0.07 ) Discontinued operations $ $ $ $ 1.41 $ 0.25 Attributable to VOXX International Corporation $ 1.09 $ (1.08 ) $ (1.89 ) $ 1.44 $ 0.18 As of As of As of As of As of February 28, February 29, February 28, February 28, February 28, 2021 (1) 2020 (1),(5) 2019 (1),(2) 2018 (3) 2017 Consolidated Balance Sheet Data Cash and cash equivalents $ 59,404 $ 37,425 $ 58,236 $ 51,740 $ 956 Total assets 550,818 441,571 508,811 575,644 668,486 Working capital 172,543 146,798 151,169 170,472 143,281 Long-term obligations (6) 24,693 19,839 18,494 30,139 147,104 Total stockholders' equity 376,069 348,229 395,101 450,118 391,315 (1) Fiscal 2021, Fiscal 2020, and Fiscal 2019 amounts reflect intangible asset impairment charges (see Note 1(k) of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). (2) Fiscal 2019 amounts include Venezuela currency devaluation and impairment charges related to Venezuela investment properties (see Note 1(p) of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). (3) Fiscal 2018 reflects the effect of the sale of Hirschmann on the decrease in total assets. The gain recognized on the sale of Hirschmann is included in Discontinued Operations. (4) Fiscal 2020 includes the gain on the sale of real property in Pulheim, Germany (see Note 11). (5) Fiscal 2020 reflects the prospective adoption of ASC 842, Leases, in which the Company has recognized current and non-current right of use assets and lease liabilities for operating leases, in addition to finance leases already recorded. (6) Long-term obligations include long-term debt, finance and operating lease obligations, deferred compensation, deferred and other tax liabilities, as well as other long-term liabilities. 29 Item 7-Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") This section should be read in conjunction with the "Cautionary Statements" and "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of Part I, and Item 8 of Part II, "Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." We begin Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations with an overview of the business, including our strategy to give the reader a summary of the goals of our business and the direction in which our business is moving. This is followed by a discussion of the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results. In the next section, we discuss our Results of Operations for the year ended February 28, 2021 compared to the years ended February 29, 2020 and February 28, 2019. Next, we present EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, and Diluted Adjusted EBITDA per common share for the year ended February 28, 2021 compared to the years ended February 29, 2020 and February 28, 2019 in order to provide a useful and appropriate supplemental measure of our performance. We then provide an analysis of changes in our balance sheet and cash flows and discuss our financial commitments in the sections entitled "Liquidity and Capital Resources." We conclude this MD&A with a discussion of "Related Party Transactions" and "Recent Accounting Pronouncements." Business Overview and Strategy VOXX International Corporation is a leading international distributor, manufacturer and value-added service provider in the automotive electronics, consumer electronics and biometrics industries. We conduct our business through nineteen wholly-owned subsidiaries and one majority owned subsidiary. Voxx has a broad portfolio of brand names used to market our products as well as private labels through a large domestic and international distribution network. We also function as an OEM ("Original Equipment Manufacturer") supplier to several customers, as well as market a number of products under exclusive distribution agreements. In recent years, we have focused our attention on acquiring synergistic businesses with the addition of several new subsidiaries. These subsidiaries have helped us to expand our core business and broaden our presence in the accessory and OEM markets. Our acquisitions of Klipsch and Invision provided the opportunity to enter the manufacturing arena, and our acquisition of a controlling interest in EyeLock Inc. and EyeLock Corporation allowed us to enter the growing and innovative biometrics market. The Company has also made strategic asset purchases in order to strengthen its product offerings and increase market share, such as the acquisition of certain assets and assumption of certain liabilities of Rosen Electronics LLC in Fiscal 2018, Vehicle Safety Holding Corp. in Fiscal 2020, and Directed LLC and Directed Electronics Canada Inc. in Fiscal 2021. Our intention is to continue to pursue business opportunities which will allow us to further expand our business model while leveraging overhead and exploring specialized niche markets in the electronics industry. Notwithstanding the above acquisitions, if the appropriate opportunity arises, the Company has been willing to explore the potential divestiture of a product line or business, such as with the sale of the Company's Hirschmann subsidiary in Fiscal 2018. The Company classifies its operations in the following three reportable segments: Automotive Electronics, Consumer Electronics, and Biometrics. The characteristics of our operations that are relied on in making and reviewing business decisions within these segments include the similarities in our products, the commonality of our customers, suppliers and product developers across multiple brands, our unified marketing and distribution strategy, our centralized inventory management and logistics, and the nature of the financial information used by our Chief Operating Decision Maker ("CODM"). The CODM reviews the financial results of the Company based on the performance of the Automotive Electronics, Consumer Electronics, and Biometrics segments. The Company domestic and international business is subject to retail industry trends and conditions and the sales of new and used vehicles. Worldwide economic conditions impact consumer spending and if the global macroeconomic environment deteriorates, this could have a negative effect on the Company revenues and earnings. In an attempt to offset any negative market conditions, the Company continues to explore strategies and alternatives to reduce its operating expenses, such as the consolidation of facilities and IT systems, and has been introducing new products to obtain a greater market share. Although we believe our product groups have expanding market opportunities, there are certain levels of volatility related to domestic and international markets, new car sales, increased competition by manufacturers, private labels, technological advancements, discretionary consumer spending and general economic conditions. Also, all of our products are subject to price fluctuations which could affect the carrying value of inventories and gross margins in the future. 30 During March 2020, a global pandemic was declared by the World Health Organization related to the rapidly growing outbreak of COVID-19 , which began spreading during the fourth quarter of our 2020 fiscal year . The pandemic has significantly impacted the economic conditions in the United States, as federal, state , and local governments have reacted to the public health crisis, creating significant uncertainties in the United States, as well as the global economy. In the interest of public health and safety, U.S. jurisdictions (national, state , and local) where our primary operations and those of many of our customers are located, required mandatory business closures and capacity limitations during Fiscal 2021, or other restrictions for those that were permitted to continue to operate. As of February 28, 2021 , all of our operating locations were open , some of which were at a reduced in-office employee presence . As a result of these events, the Company has experienced certain adverse impacts on its revenues, results of operations and cash flows during Fiscal 2021. The situation is still rapidly changing and additional impacts to the Company business may arise that we are not aware of currently. We cannot predict whether, when, or the manner in which the conditions surrounding COVID-19 will change, including the timing of the lifting of any restrictions or closure requirements, or any subsequent re-impositions of restrictions. Due to the changing situation, the results of the first quarter ending May 31, 2021 and the full fiscal year ending February 28, 2022 could be impacted in ways we are not able to predict today, including, but not limited to, non-cash write-downs and impairments; foreign currency fluctuations; potential adjustments to the carrying value of inventory; and the delayed collections of, or inability to collect, accounts receivable. During April 2020, as a precautionary measure to ensure financial flexibility and maintain maximum liquidity in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company borrowed $20,000 from its revolving credit facilities in the U.S. This borrowing was repaid in full during the third quarter of Fiscal 2021. As of the date of this report, the Company continues to focus on cash flow and anticipates having sufficient resources to operate during Fiscal 2022. The Company also implemented a number of other measures to help mitigate the operating and financial impact of the pandemic, including: (i) furloughing approximately 20% of its employees globally starting April 6, 2020; (ii) implementing temporary salary and hour reductions for both management and non-management level employees Company-wide, including its executive officers, and the Company board of directors; (iii) executing substantial reductions in expenses, service provider costs, occupancy costs, capital expenditures and overall costs, including through reduced inventory purchases; and (iv) working globally with management teams to actively explore and identify all eligible government and other initiatives available to businesses or employees impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. As of the filing date of our report, less than 1% of our employees remain on furlough. The above referenced salary and hour reductions were eliminated by the Company during the third quarter of Fiscal 2021, and the salary reductions taken were repaid to all employees during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2021. Acquisitions and Dispositions We have acquired and integrated several businesses, as well as divested certain businesses, the most recent of which are outlined in the Acquisitions and Dispositions section of Part I and presented in detail in Note 2 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Net Sales Increase Net sales over a five-year period have increased 10% from $514,530 for the year ended February 28, 2017 to $563,605 for the year ended February 28, 2021. During this period, our sales were positively impacted by the following items: The introduction of new products and product lines in the Automotive Electronics and Consumer Electronics segments, such as: OEM rear seat entertainment; remote start and security products; premium audio computer speaker systems; various premium and non-premium Bluetooth and wireless speaker products; multi-room streaming audio solutions; neckband, on-ear, in-ear, and over-ear headphones; nursery products; and karaoke products, the acquisition of certain assets of Rosen Electronics LLC, the acquisition of certain assets of Vehicle Safety Holdings Corp., the acquisition of certain assets of Directed LLC and Directed Electronics Canada Inc., the introduction of activity tracking band fulfillment programs and the increase in product offerings under these programs, 31 international digital broadcasting upgrades necessitating the purchase of updated consumer accessory products, and successful marketing and promotional activity. These items were partially offset by: impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, which caused nationwide and global business closures, including car manufacturers, car dealerships, movie theaters, and other brick and mortar businesses where our products are sold; volatility in core Automotive Electronics and Consumer Electronics sales due to declines in global automotive sales, increased competition, lower selling prices, changes in technology and demand, and the volatility of the national and global economy; the discontinuance and reduction of various high volume/low margin product lines such as clock radios, digital players, digital voice recorders, and portable DVD players; decreased box office sales affecting the Company's cinema audio products; weather factors resulting in changes in demand for aftermarket remote start products; and the sale of certain branded product inventory of the Company to a third party in order to license the brand name for a commission. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) General Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make certain estimates, judgments, and assumptions that we believe are reasonable based upon the information available. These estimates and assumptions can be subjective and complex and may affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues, and expenses reported in those financial statements. As a result, actual results could differ from such estimates and assumptions. During Fiscal 2021, as well as subsequent to February 28, 2021, there has been continuous and significant changes to the global economic situation as a consequence of the COVID-19 pandemic. It is possible that this could cause changes to estimates as a result of the financial circumstances of the markets in which the Company operates, the price of the Company publicly traded equity in comparison to the Company carrying value, and the health of the global economy. Such changes to estimates could potentially result in impacts that would be material to the consolidated financial statements, particularly with respect to the fair value of the Company reporting units in relation to potential goodwill impairment and the fair value of long-lived assets in relation to potential impairment. The significant accounting policies and estimates which we believe are the most critical in fully understanding and evaluating the reported consolidated financial results include the following: Revenue Recognition On March 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, and all the related amendments ( ASC 606 ), using the modified retrospective method. Most of the changes resulting from the adoption of ASC Topic 606 on March 1, 2018 were changes in presentation within the Consolidated Balance Sheet, and we made no changes to opening Retained Earnings. The impact of the adoption of ASC Topic 606 has been immaterial to our net income; however, the adoption did increase the level of disclosure concerning our net sales. The core principle of ASC 606 is that an entity recognizes revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods and services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods and services. We apply the FASB guidance on revenue recognition, which requires us to recognize the amount of revenue and consideration that we expect to receive in exchange for goods and services transferred to our customers. To do this, the Company applies the five-step model prescribed by the FASB, which requires us to: (i) identify the contract with the customer; (ii) identify the performance obligations in the contract; (iii) determine the transaction price; (iv) allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract; and (v) recognize revenue when, or as, we satisfy a performance obligation. We account for a contract or purchase order when it has approval and commitment from both parties, the rights of the parties are identified, payment terms are identified, the contract has commercial substance, and collectability of 32 consideration is probable. Revenue is recognized when control of the product passes to the customer, which is upon shipment, unless otherwise specified within the customer contract or on the purchase order as delivery, and is recognized at the amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive for the products sold, including various forms of discounts. When revenue is recorded, estimates of returns are made and recorded as a reduction of revenue. Sales Incentives Sales incentives are accounted for in accordance with ASC 606. We offer sales incentives to our customers in the form of (1) co-operative advertising allowances; (2) market development funds; (3) volume incentive rebates; and (4) other trade allowances. We accrue the cost of co-operative advertising allowances, volume incentive rebates, and market development funds at the later of when the customer purchases our products or when the sales incentive is offered to the customer. We record the provision for other trade allowances at the later of when the sales incentive is offered or when the related revenue is recognized. Except for other trade allowances, all sales incentives require the customer to purchase our products during a specified period of time. All sales incentives require customers to claim the sales incentive within a certain time period (referred to as the "claim period"). All costs associated with sales incentives are classified as a reduction of net sales. Depending on the specific facts and circumstances, we utilize either the most likely amount or the expected value methods to estimate the effect of uncertainty on the amount of variable consideration to which we would be entitled. The most likely amount method considers the single most likely amount from a range of possible consideration amounts, while the expected value method is the sum of probability-weighted amounts in a range of possible consideration amounts. Both methods are based upon the contractual terms of the incentives and historical experience with each customer. Although we make our best estimate of sales incentive liabilities, many factors, including significant unanticipated changes in the purchasing volume and the lack of claims from customers could have a significant impact on the liability for sales incentives and reported operating results. We record estimates for cash discounts, promotional rebates, and other promotional allowances in the period the related revenue is recognized ( Customer Credits ). The provision for Customer Credits is recorded as a reduction from gross sales and reserves for Customer Credits are presented within accrued sales incentives on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Unearned sales incentives are volume incentive rebates where the customer did not purchase the required minimum quantities of product during the specified time. Volume incentive rebates are reversed into income in the period when the customer did not reach the required minimum purchases of product during the specified time. Unclaimed sales incentives are sales incentives earned by the customer, but the customer has not claimed payment within the claim period (period after program has ended). Unclaimed sales incentives are investigated in a timely manner after the end of the program and reversed if deemed appropriate. Accounts Receivable We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and adjust credit limits based upon payment history and current credit worthiness, as determined by a review of current credit information. We continuously monitor collections from our customers and maintain a provision for estimated credit losses based upon historical experience and any specific customer collection issues that have been identified. While such credit losses have historically been within management's expectations and the provisions established, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to experience the same credit loss rates that have been experienced in the past. Our five largest customer balances comprise 25% of our accounts receivable balance as of February 28, 2021. A significant change in the liquidity or financial position of any one of these customers could have a material adverse impact on the collectability of accounts receivable and our results of operations. On March 1, 2020, we adopted Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) 2016-13, Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, which did not have a material impact on our financial statements. Our financial instruments consist of trade receivables arising from revenue transactions in the ordinary course of business. We extend credit to customers based on pre-defined criteria and trade receivables are generally due within 30 to 60 days. Inventory We value our inventory at the lower of the actual cost to purchase or the net realizable value of the inventory. Net realizable value is defined as estimated selling prices, less cost of completion, disposal, and transportation. We regularly review inventory quantities on-hand and record a provision in cost of sales for excess and obsolete 33 inventory based primarily on selling prices, indications from customers based upon current price negotiations, and purchase orders. The cost of the inventory is determined primarily on a weighted moving average basis, with a portion valued at standard cost, which approximates actual costs on the first in, first out basis. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new product introductions that could result in an increase in the amount of obsolete inventory quantities on-hand. In addition, and as necessary, specific reserves for future known or anticipated events may be established. Estimates of excess and obsolete inventory may prove to be inaccurate, in which case we may have understated or overstated the provision required for excess and obsolete inventory. Although we make every effort to ensure the accuracy of our forecasts of future product demand, any significant unanticipated changes in demand or technological developments could have a significant impact on the carrying value of inventory and our results of operations. Long-Lived and Intangible Asset Impairments As of February 28, 2021, intangible assets totaled $90,104 and property, plant and equipment totaled $52,026. Management makes estimates and assumptions in preparing the consolidated financial statements for which actual results will emerge over long periods of time. This includes the recoverability of long-lived assets employed in the business, including assets of acquired businesses. These estimates and assumptions are closely monitored by management and periodically adjusted as circumstances warrant. For instance, expected asset lives may be shortened or an impairment recorded based upon a change in the expected use of the asset or performance of the related asset group. At the present time, management intends to continue the development, marketing and selling of products associated with its intangible assets, and there are no known restrictions on the continuation of their use. In connection with the annual impairment test performed as of the last day of the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2021, the Company determined that one of its trademarks in the Consumer Electronics segment was impaired. The impairment was the result of shortfalls in sales due to reduced demand of the product category. As a result, an impairment charge of $1,300 was recorded for the year ended February 28, 2021 (see Note 1(k)). Related long-lived assets were tested for recoverability and determined to be recoverable and therefore no additional impairments related to long-lived assets were recorded. In connection with the annual impairment test performed as of the last day of the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2020, the Company determined that several of its indefinite-lived trademarks in the Consumer Electronics segment, were impaired. The impairments were the result of the Company being unable to secure product placement into customer stores, anticipated shortfalls in sales due to economic uncertainty as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, reduced demand from a large traditional brick-and-mortar customer, along with continued declines in the German economy. As a result, several indefinite-lived tradenames in the Consumer Electronics segment were impaired resulting in impairment charges of $2,828 recorded for the year ended February 29, 2020 (see Note 1(k)). Related long-lived assets were tested for recoverability and determined to be recoverable and therefore no additional impairments related to long-lived assets were recorded in the Consumer Electronics segment. In the Biometrics segment, in connection with the annual impairment test for Fiscal 2020, the Company determined that its indefinite-lived trademark was impaired. The impairment of the trademark was the result of lack of customer acceptance of the related technology, lower than anticipated results, adjusted expectations for demand and anticipated delays of product deployment with target customers due to economic uncertainty given the COVID-19 pandemic. Related long-lived assets in the Biometrics segment were tested for recoverability and determined not to be recoverable. The fair value of the long-lived assets that were not recoverable were estimated, and when compared to their carrying value, were determined to also be impaired. As a result, total impairments in the Biometrics segment of $27,402 for indefinite-lived and definite-lived intangible assets were recorded for the year ended February 29, 2020 (see Note 1 (k)). The combined impairment charges for both the Consumer Electronics segment and the Biometrics segment aggregated $30,230 for fiscal year ended February 29, 2020. During the second quarter of Fiscal 2019, the Company re-evaluated its projections for several brands in its former Consumer Accessories and Automotive segments based on lower than anticipated results. Specifically, during the second quarter of Fiscal 2019, the lower than anticipated results were due to reduced product load-ins, increased competition for certain product lines, a streamlining of SKU s, and a change in market strategy for one of its brands. 34 Accordingly, these were considered indicators of impairment requiring the Company to test the related indefinite-lived tradenames for impairment as of August 31, 2018. The Company also tested its indefinite-lived intangible assets as of February 28, 2019 as part of its annual impairment testing. During the fourth quarter, the Company further streamlined its SKUs in conjunction with its corporate realignment and transformation initiatives, and adjusted expectations for select customer demand, and the anticipated results from alternative sales channels for one of its brands. As a result of these analyses, it was determined that several of the Company former Consumer Accessories trademarks and one of the Automotive trademark s were impaired with total impairment charges of $25,789 recorded for the year ended February 28, 2019 (see Note 1(k )). Approximately 39% of our indefinite-lived trademarks ($24,432) are at risk of impairment as of February 28, 2021. When testing indefinite-lived assets for impairment, we have the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the estimated fair value is less than its carrying amount. If we elect to perform a qualitative assessment and determine that an impairment is more likely than not, we are then required to perform the quantitative impairment test; otherwise, no further analysis is required. Under the qualitative assessment, we consider various qualitative factors, including macroeconomic conditions, relevant industry and market trends, cost factors, overall financial performance, other entity-specific events, and events affecting the indefinite-lived asset that could indicate a potential change in the fair value of our indefinite-lived assets. We also considered the specific future outlook for the indefinite-lived asset. We may also elect not to perform the qualitative assessment and instead, proceed directly to the quantitative impairment test. The Company uses an income approach, based on the relief from royalty method, to value the indefinite-lived trademarks as part of its quantitative impairment test. This impairment test involves the use of accounting estimates and assumptions, changes in which could materially impact our financial condition or operating performance if actual results differ from such estimates and assumptions. The critical assumptions in the discounted cash flow model include revenues, long-term growth rates, royalty rates, and discount rates. Management exercises judgment in developing these assumptions. Certain of these assumptions are based upon industry projections, facts specific to the trademarks and consideration of our long-term view for the trademark and the markets we operate in. If we were to experience sales declines, a significant change in operating margins which may impact estimated royalty rates, an increase in our discount rates, and/or a decrease in our projected long-term growth rates, there would be an increased risk of impairment of these indefinite-lived trademarks. The cost of other intangible assets with definite lives and long-lived assets are amortized on an accelerated or straight-line basis over their respective lives. Management has determined that the current lives of these assets are appropriate. Long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangibles are reviewed for impairment in accordance with ASC 360 whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying value of an asset to future undiscounted net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If the carrying value of the long-lived assets are not recoverable on an undiscounted basis, they are then compared to their estimated fair market value. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying value of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. The Company holds certain long-lived assets in Venezuela, which are held for investment purposes. During the second quarter of Fiscal 2019, the Company assessed the recoverability of these properties as a result of the country's continued economic deterioration, which included a significant currency devaluation in August of 2018. The Company estimated the future undiscounted cash flows expected to be received from these properties. The estimate of the future undiscounted cash flows considered the Company financial condition and its intent and ability to retain its investments for a period of time sufficient to allow for the recovery of the carrying value. The future undiscounted cash flows did not exceed the net carrying value for the long-lived assets. The estimated fair value of the properties, which also considered the current conditions of the economy in Venezuela, the volatility of the real estate market, and the significant political unrest, resulted in a full non-cash impairment charge of $3,473 for the year ended February 28, 2019. The non-cash impairment charge is included in Other Income (Expense) on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive (Loss) Income. The value of the Company's properties held for investment purposes in Venezuela is $0 as of February 28, 2021. Voxx goodwill totaled $58,311 as of February 28, 2021. Goodwill is tested for impairment as of the last day of each fiscal year at the reporting unit level. When testing goodwill for impairment, we have the option to first assess 35 qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the estimated fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If we elect to perform a qualitative assessment and determine that an impairment is more likely than not, we are then required to perform the quantitative impairment test; otherwise, no further analysis is required. Under the qualitative assessment, we consider various qualitative factors, including macroeconomic conditions, relevant industry and market trends, cost factors, overall financial performance, other entity-specific events , and events affecting the reporting unit that could indicate a potential change in fair value of our reporting unit or the composition of its carrying values. We also consider the specific future outlook for the reporting unit. We also may elect not to perform the qualitative assessment and instead, proceed directly to the quantitative impairment test. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets and liabilities to reporting units, assignment of goodwill to reporting units, and estimation of the fair value of each reporting unit. Based on the Company's goodwill impairment assessment, all the reporting units with goodwill had estimated fair values as of February 28, 2021 that exceeded their carrying values. As a result of the annual assessment, no impairment charges were recorded related to goodwill during Fiscal 20 2 1 , Fiscal 20 2 0, or Fiscal 201 9 . Goodwill allocated to our Klipsch, Invision, Rosen, VSM, and DEI reporting units was 79.8% ($46,533), 12.6% ($7,372), 1.5% ($880), 1.0% ($572 ), and 5.1% ($2,954), respectively. The fair values of the Klipsch and Invision reporting units are greater than their carrying values by approximately 544.9% ($188,149) and 25.5% ($5,094), respectively, as of February 28, 2021. The quantitative assessment utilizes either an income approach, a market approach, or a combination of these approaches to determine the fair value of its reporting units. These approaches have a degree of uncertainty. The income approach employs a discounted cash flow model to value the reporting unit as part of its impairment test. This impairment test involves the use of accounting estimates and assumptions, changes in which could materially impact our financial condition or operating performance if actual results differ from such estimates and assumptions. The critical assumptions in the discounted cash flow model are revenues, operating margins, working capital and a discount rate (developed using a weighted average cost of capital analysis). Management exercises judgment in developing these assumptions. Certain of these assumptions are based upon industry projections, facts specific to the reporting unit, market participant assumptions and data, and consideration of our long-term view for the reporting unit and the markets we operate in. The market approach employs market multiples from guideline public companies operating in our industry. Estimates of fair value are derived by applying multiples based on revenue and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization ( EBITDA ) adjusted for size and performance metrics relative to peer companies. If the Klipsch reporting unit were to experience sales declines, sustained pricing pressures, unfavorable operating margins, lack of new product acceptance by consumers, changes in consumer trends and preferred shopping channels, less than anticipated results for the holiday season, a change in the peer group or performance of the peer companies, an increase to the discount rate, and/or a decrease in our projected long-term growth rates used in the discounted cash flow model, there would be an increased risk of goodwill impairment for the Klipsch reporting unit. If the Invision reporting unit experienced an increase to the discount rate, a lack or delay in new product acceptance, cancellation, or reduction in projected volumes from OEM customers, or a change in our projected long-term growth rates used in the discounted cash flow model, there would be an increased risk of goodwill impairment for the Invision reporting unit. If the Rosen, VSM, and DEI reporting units experienced an increase to the discount rate, sales declines, changes in consumer trends, or increases in cost factors, there would be an increased risk of goodwill impairment for the Rosen, VSM, and DEI reporting units. Warranties We offer warranties of various lengths depending upon the specific product. Our standard warranties require us to repair or replace defective product returned by both end users and customers during such warranty period at no cost. We do not sell extended warranties. We record an estimate for warranty related costs in cost of sales, based upon historical experience of actual warranty claims and current information on repair costs and contract terms with certain manufacturers. While warranty costs have historically been within expectations and the provisions established, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to experience the same warranty return rates or repair costs that have been experienced in the past. A significant increase in product return rates, or a significant increase in the costs to repair products, could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. 36 Stock-Based Compensation We use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to compute the estimated fair value of stock-based awards. The Black-Scholes option pricing model includes assumptions regarding dividend yields, expected volatility, expected option term and risk-free interest rates. The assumptions used in computing the fair value of stock-based awards reflect our best estimates, but involve uncertainties relating to market and other conditions, many of which are outside of our control. We estimate expected volatility by considering the historical volatility of our stock, the implied volatility of publicly traded stock options in our stock and our expectations of volatility for the expected term of stock-based compensation awards. For restricted stock awards, the fair value of the award is the price on the date of grant. As a result, if other assumptions or estimates had been used for restricted stock awards granted in the current and prior periods, the total stock-based compensation expense for the current fiscal year of $1,749 could have been materially different. Furthermore, if different assumptions are used in future periods, stock-based compensation expense could be materially impacted in the future. Income Taxes We account for income taxes in accordance with the guidance issued under Statement ASC 740, "Income Taxes" ( ASC 740 ) with consideration for uncertain tax positions. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount of future tax benefit that is more likely than not to be realized. Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying values of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax basis and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets within the jurisdiction from which they arise, we consider all positive and negative evidence including the results of recent operations, scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, future taxable income, and tax planning strategies. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled (see Note 8). The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities from a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. The Company accounts for uncertain tax positions in accordance with the authoritative guidance issued under ASC 740, which addresses the determination of whether tax benefits claimed or expected to be claimed on a tax return should be recorded in the financial statements. The Company may recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such position should be measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. The Company provides loss contingencies for federal, state, and international tax matters relating to potential tax examination issues, planning initiatives and compliance responsibilities. The development of these reserves requires judgments about tax issues, potential outcomes, and timing, which if different, may materially impact the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The Company classifies interest and penalties associated with income taxes as a component of Income tax expense (benefit) on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss). Results of Operations Included in Item 8 of this annual report on Form 10-K are the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of February 28, 2021 and February 29, 2020 and the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss), Consolidated Statements of Stockholders Equity and Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended February 28, 2021, February 29, 2020 and February 28, 2019. In order to provide the reader meaningful comparisons, the following analysis provides comparisons of the audited year ended February 28, 2021 with the audited year ended February 29, 2020, and the audited year ended February 29, 2020 with the audited year ended February 28, 2019. We analyze and explain the differences between periods in the specific line items of the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss). 37 Year Ended February 28, 2021 Compared to the Years Ended February 29, 2020 and February 28, 2019 Continuing Operations The tables presented in this section set forth, for the periods indicated, certain Statement of Operations data for the years ended February 28, 2021 ("Fiscal 2021"), February 29, 2020 ("Fiscal 2020") and February 28, 2019 ("Fiscal 2019"). Net Sales Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal 2021 2020 2019 Automotive Electronics $ 163,903 $ 114,154 $ 161,647 Consumer Electronics 398,263 279,675 283,144 Biometrics 836 461 1,098 Corporate 603 599 927 Total net sales $ 563,605 $ 394,889 $ 446,816 Fiscal 2021 compared to Fiscal 2020 Automotive Electronics sales, which include both OEM and aftermarket automotive electronics, represented 29.1% of the net sales for the year ended February 28, 2021, compared to 28.9% in the prior year. Sales in this segment increased $49,749 for the year ended February 28, 2021, as compared to the prior year. The primary driver of sales increases in this segment was sales of OEM and aftermarket products related to the Company VSM and DEI subsidiaries, established in connection with the Company acquisitions in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2020 and the second quarter of Fiscal 2021, respectively. Sales from these two new subsidiaries totaled approximately $71,000 and comprised approximately 43% of the segment sales for the year ended February 28, 2021. In the prior year, the Company VSM subsidiary contributed approximately $2,300 of sales to the Automotive Electronics segment. The Company also saw an increase in sales of its aftermarket security and remote start products of approximately $3,600 during the year ended February 28, 2021, partly due to a boost in demand following business re-openings after the COVID-19 shut-downs, as purchases could not be made by customers during the shutdowns. Offsetting these increases, the segment experienced sales declines in certain product lines during the year ended February 28, 2021 related to the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as certain other factors. The Company experienced a net decrease in sales of OEM rear seat entertainment products totaling approximately $10,300 due to several automotive manufacturing plant shut-downs beginning in March 2020 as a result of COVID-19, including Ford, GM, FCA, and Subaru. Many plants began to gradually re-open during the second quarter of our fiscal year, and while some of the programs have begun to ramp up production again, others have yet to return to pre-COVID levels, thus negatively impacting sales for the year. Additionally, OEM rear seat entertainment sales were negatively impacted during the year ended February 28, 2021 by the cancellation of a program with one of the Company larger customers that had been in production during the prior year. This was partially offset by the successful launch of a new program with a customer in October 2020. The Company OEM remote start sales decreased approximately $6,200 during the year ended February 28, 2021 as a result of an increase in the use of Tier 1 factory installed remote start products by many automotive manufacturers (which the Company does not sell) over accessory level remote starts. This has negatively impacted the Company sales to certain of its OEM remote start customers. Sales of aftermarket rear seat entertainment products also decreased during the year ended February 28, 2021 by approximately $2,700 due to the COVID-19 related shutdowns of car dealerships and other brick and mortar businesses during the first quarter of the year, followed by stock-outages of several products, which continued to negatively impact sales through the remainder of the fiscal year. Finally, satellite radio fulfillment sales decreased approximately $900 during the year ended February 28, 2021 both as a result of business shut-downs during COVID-19, as well as due to the fact that most new vehicles include this product as a standard option. Consumer Electronics sales represented 70.7% of net sales for the year ended February 28, 2021 as compared to 70.8% in the prior year. Sales increased $118,588 for the year ended February 28, 2021 as compared to the prior year due primarily to the positive sales and promotion of several of the Company premium audio products. During Fiscal 2021, the Company experienced greater consumer demand and achieved market share growth in its premium home theater, subwoofer, and premium wireless categories, launching a new premium wireless computer speaker 38 system and selling many of its products through warehouse club channels , as well as through online platforms, which resulted in an increase of approximately $118, 400 in sales for the year ended February 28, 2021. The Company newly formed subsidiary, 11 Trading Company LLC, also began selling Onkyo and Pioneer products through new distribution agreements during the third quarter of the fiscal year, contributing to an increase of approximately $13,700 in sales for the year ended February 28, 2021 . Within Europe, the Company experienced stronger online sales during year ended February 28, 2021 of approximately $6,300 due to many consumers shopping from home during the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as an increase in sales in its Do It Yourself ( DIY ) line of products, a new sales channel of discount retailers, and a shift in focus of premium audio products in Europe from low margin to traditional home theater products. Offsetting these sales increases were decreases in sales related to the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as other factors. The Company experienced decreases in sales of approximately $12, 2 00 in certain consumer electronic and accessory products for the year ended February 28, 2021 , such as reception products , remotes, wireless speakers, and other power products , primarily due to nationwide brick and mortar business closures and delayed customer order s related to the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as due to the Company continuing rationalization of SKUs for certain of these products, with the goal of limiting sales of lower margin products. T here was also a decrease in sales of the Company premium commercial speaker products of approximately $3,100 due to the shut-down of cinemas during the pandemic. Additionally, the Company experienced a decrease in sales of its motion products during the year ended February 28, 2021 of approximately $2,700, as one of the Company healthcare programs ended during the fiscal year , and there was a decrease in sales of smart home security products of approximately $800, as the Company began exiting this category during Fiscal 2020. Finally, product sales in the Company rest of world locations declined approximately $700 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic due to overseas lockdowns and customer order delays and cancellations. Biometrics represented 0.1% of our net sales for both of the years ended February 28, 2021 and February 29, 2020 and sales increased in the segment by $375 for the year ended February 28, 2021 as compared to the prior year. This segment experienced an increase in product sales for the year ended February 28, 2021 due to increased sales of its EXT outdoor perimeter access product, and the updated version of its Nano NXT perimeter access product, both of which launched in the second quarter of Fiscal 2020. Additionally, the Company began selling its NIXT product during the year ended February 28, 2021, which can be optionally fitted with iTEMP, a product that can take an individual temperature before allowing iris access. Fiscal 2020 compared to Fiscal 2019 Automotive Electronics sales, which include both OEM and aftermarket automotive electronics, represented 28.9% of the net sales for the year ended February 29, 2020, compared to 36.2% in the prior year. Sales in this segment decreased during the year ended February 29, 2020 as compared to the prior year due to various factors, including a decline in sales of the Company EVO rear seat entertainment product line, which was due in part to slower sales for certain programs that began in the prior year and the discontinuation of two planned programs, which is attributable to a softening of global automotive industry sales during the year. The Company OEM and aftermarket security and remote start sales also declined during the year ended February 29, 2020 as a result of competition due in part to a shift in demand from analog to digital remote start products, as well as the discontinuation of passive entry programs with certain customers. Sales of aftermarket satellite radio and headrest products have declined for the year ended February 29, 2020 as compared to the prior year, as a result of an increase in standard factory equipped vehicles with these options, as well as due to price competition and increased tariffs for aftermarket headrest products. Additionally, during the year ended February 29, 2020, the Company made a non-refundable up-front payment to one of its customers as consideration for a future OEM program award, which resulted in a reduction of revenue. Offsetting the sales declines in this segment for the year ended February 29, 2020 were increases in sales of certain aftermarket safety and security products as compared to the prior year, as well as sales related to the Company newly acquired Vehicle Safety Holdings Corp. business in the fourth quarter. Consumer Electronics sales represented 70.8% of net sales for the year ended February 29, 2020 as compared to 63.4% in the prior year. Sales decreased for the year ended February 29, 2020 as compared to the prior year due to several factors. The Company experienced decreases in sales of certain products, such as in the Project Nursery line, as a result of the elimination of baby video monitors; in wireless and bluetooth speakers, due a reduction in product placement with one of the Company larger customers and the timing of annual orders from another; in sales of smart home products, as the Company is exiting this category; and in karaoke products, due to a one time holiday sale to one of the Company customers in the prior year that did not repeat in the current fiscal year. The Company also continued to see a decline in sales of certain hook-up, power products, and headphones, as a result of changes in 39 customer demand and technology, and due to the Company continuing rationalization of SKUs in Fiscal 2020, with the goal of limiting sales of lower margin products. Within Europe, the Company experienced decreases in sales across all product lines, as well as in the DIY business during the year ended February 29, 2020 as a result of a slowdown in the European market. Offsetting these decreases, the Company had an increase in sales within both of its premium mobility and premium wireless and bluetooth speaker categories as a result of the launch of new lines of soundbars, Bluetooth speakers, and wireless earbuds, as well as stronger sales of several existing products. The Company premium home separate speaker product sales also increased as a result of the continued successful sales of its new domestic product lines that launched during the second quarter of Fiscal 2019, and additional distribution partners for the Company premium commercial speaker products had a favorable impact on sales for the year ended February 29, 2020 as well. Additionally, reception product sales were up for the year ended February 29, 2020 as a result of expanded SKU offerings with certain customers and stronger market share, and sales of the Company activity bands have increased year over year as a result of increased motion program participants, as well as additional product offerings for participants, including the Apple watch and Fitbit. Biometrics represented 0.1% of our net sales for the year ended February 29, 2020, compared to 0.2% in the prior year. This segment experienced a decrease in product sales for the year ended February 29, 2020 as a result of its product mix, as the Company was selling more of its higher dollar Hbox products during the year ended February 28, 2019. During the year ended February 29, 2020, the Company began selling its EXT outdoor perimeter access product, as well as an updated version of its Nano NXT perimeter access product, which both sell at a lower price point and have not yet achieved the sales volumes to surpass prior year sales dollars. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Percentage Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal 2021 2020 2019 Automotive Electronics $ 39,296 $ 23,131 $ 40,621 24.0 % 20.3 % 25.1 % Consumer Electronics 118,866 86,588 82,230 29.8 % 31.0 % 29.0 % Biometrics (191 ) (160 ) (1,082 ) -22.8 % -34.7 % -98.5 % Corporate 576 217 (352 ) $ 158,547 $ 109,776 $ 121,417 28.1 % 27.8 % 27.2 % Fiscal 2021 compared to Fiscal 2020 Gross margins in the Automotive Electronics segment increased 370 basis points for the year ended February 28, 2021. The primary driver of the margin increases in this segment has been sales of OEM and aftermarket products related to the Company VSM and DEI subsidiaries, whose products have higher profit margins than those typically achieved by the segment. DEI sales were not present in the prior year, and VSM contributed to sales for one month of Fiscal 2020, or 2% of the segment sales. The increase in sales of higher margin aftermarket remote start and security products also contributed positively to the segment margins during the year ended February 28, 2021. Offsetting these positive impacts, the decline in sales of higher margin OEM security and remote start products during the year ended February 28, 2021, due to the shift in demand from accessory level remote starts to production level, factory installed remote starts, caused a decline in margins. In addition, there was a decline in aftermarket headrest sales during the year ended February 28, 2021, which typically generate higher margins for the segment and thus had a negative impact on margins for the year. Gross margins in the Consumer Electronics segment decreased 120 basis points for the year ended February 28, 2021 compared to the prior year. Margin declines during the year ended February 28, 2021 were primarily driven by the Company newest line of premium wireless computer speakers, as well as other premium audio products sold through warehouse club channels, which have contributed positively to sales, but have been sold at lower margins than those typically associated with the Company premium wireless speaker products. The Company premium headphone margins also negatively impacted the segment overall margins during the year ended February 28, 2021 due to close out sales of certain older products in preparation for the launch of its newest line of wireless earbuds, 40 which contributed to an increase in sales of these product, but a decline in the margins . Additionally, although sales in Europe have increased during the year ended February 28, 2021 , the increase in sales generated from a new sales channel of discount retail customers has generated lower margins and has had a negative impact on the year . As an offset to these negative impacts, the segment has experienced margin increases during the year ended February 28, 2021 due to factors including a shift in focus of premium audio products in Europe from low margin to traditional home theater products. Additionally, while the Company experienced decreases in sales of certain product lines during the year ended February 28, 2021 , such as reception products and remotes, the margins earned on these products improved as compared to the prior year due to the movement of production out of China. Gross margins in the Biometrics segment improved for the year ended February 28, 2021 compared to the prior year. The increase in margins for the year ended February 28, 2021 was primarily a result of prior year events that negatively impacted the segment margins in Fiscal 2020. Certain tooling and defective repair costs incurred during the year ended February 29, 2020, as well as the provision of beta samples to certain customers at no cost during the prior year, negatively impacted Fiscal 2020 margins. A large sale made at a loss during the year ended February 29, 2020 also caused lower margins in the prior year. During the year ended February 28, 2021, the Company provided more onsite and remote support to customers, which generates higher margins for the segment. Offsetting these positive margin impacts for the year ended February 28, 2021 has been the reduction in pricing on certain products, which has helped to drive higher sales in Fiscal 2021 but has resulted in lower margins for the segment. In addition, the release of inventory reserves in the prior year had a positive impact on the segment gross margin in Fiscal 2020, thus negatively impacting the current year margin comparisons. Fiscal 2020 compared to Fiscal 2019 Gross margins in the Automotive Electronics segment decreased 480 basis points for the year ended February 29, 2020. The decrease in margins was driven primarily by the declines in higher margin OEM security, remote start, and rear seat entertainment sales, which also resulted in lower absorption of fixed overhead costs in the current year periods, further decreasing margins for the segment. Additionally, slow moving write-off adjustments were made during the fiscal year, in part due to the slower rear seat entertainment sales and the discontinuation of certain programs. There was also a decline in aftermarket headrest product sales, which typically generate higher margins for the segment. Margins were negatively affected further during the year ended February 29, 2020 by tariff increases, as certain of the Company products are manufactured in China, while production of certain other products were relocated to other countries with higher labor costs. During the year ended February 29, 2020, the Company also made a non-refundable up-front payment to a customer as consideration for a future OEM program award, which negatively impacted margins. As an offset to these margin declines during the year ended February 29, 2020, the Automotive Electronics segment experienced declines in satellite radio sales, which contribute lower margins to the group, while increased sales of certain aftermarket security products and products related to the newly acquired Vehicle Safety Holdings Corp. business contributed favorably to margins for the year. Gross margins in the Consumer Electronics segment increased 200 basis points for the year ended February 29, 2020 compared to the prior year. Margin increases during the year ended February 29, 2020 were driven in part by increased sales of the Company high margin premium wireless and bluetooth speakers, mobility products, home separate, and commercial speakers, as well as the result of heavy discounts offered on older mobility products in the prior year, such as wired headphones and neckbands, that did not repeat in the current year. Margins have been negatively affected during the year ended February 29, 2020 by tariff increases, as certain of the Company products are manufactured in China, while production of certain other products were relocated to other countries with higher labor costs. The Company offset some of the effects of these tariff increases, where possible, with price increases. Margin declines were also driven by declining sales of products with typically higher margins, such as Project Nursery and karaoke products, as well as by sales declines within the European market and higher warehousing costs incurred related to the use of a third party for warehousing services in Europe beginning during the first quarter of Fiscal 2020. Gross margins in the Biometrics segment increased for the year ended February 29, 2020 compared to the prior year. These increases were primarily due to the write off slow moving inventory and parts in Fiscal 2019 related to its myris product, which negatively impacted margins in the prior year. Offsetting these factors were sales of certain inventory during the year ended February 28, 2019 that had been previously written off, and contributed positively to margins in the prior year, as well as higher sales of licensing fees in the prior year, which earned higher margins for the segment. Additionally, during the year ended February 29, 2020, the Company incurred certain tooling and 41 defective repair costs, as well as provided beta samples to certain customers and prospects at no charge, which negatively impacted margins for the current fiscal year. Operating Expenses Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal 2021 2020 2019 Operating Expenses: Selling $ 43,786 $ 39,319 $ 41,731 General and administrative 70,085 68,928 66,935 Engineering and technical support 20,897 21,602 24,387 Intangible asset impairment charges 1,300 30,230 25,789 Restructuring expense 4,588 Total Operating Expenses $ 136,068 $ 160,079 $ 163,430 Fiscal 2021 compared to Fiscal 2020 The Company experienced an overall decrease in operating expenses of $24,011 for Fiscal 2021 as compared to Fiscal 2020; however, in the absence of intangible asset impairment charges in both years, operating expenses would have increased by $4,919. Selling expenses have increased $4,467 for the year ended February 28, 2021. This increase was primarily due to increased commission expense of approximately $4,600 as a result of higher sales for the fiscal year. A net increase in salary expense of approximately $1,200 was due to the additional headcount created by acquisitions resulting in the establishment of the VSM and DEI subsidiaries in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2020 and the second quarter of Fiscal 2021, respectively, as well as additional hires related to the Company new 11 Trading Company subsidiary related to distribution agreements for Onkyo and Pioneer products. This was slightly offset by the furlough of certain employees during the fiscal year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Web advertising and platform expenses increased approximately $1,800 for the year ended February 28, 2021 due to an increase in online traffic, with many consumers working and shopping from home during the mandatory quarantines and business shutdowns throughout the country as a result of the pandemic. Additionally, credit card fees increased approximately $600 primarily as a result of the Company DEI subsidiary, established in connection with the Company acquisition in the second quarter of Fiscal 2021, whose subscription sales are transacted online. Offsetting these increases in selling expenses for the year ended February 28, 2021 were decreases due to factors directly related to the COVID-19 pandemic, which resulted in the temporary shut-down of many brick and mortar stores and mandatory quarantine orders during the first quarter of our Fiscal 2021 year, with phased re-openings taking place beginning in the second quarter through the remainder of our fiscal year. The elimination of all non-essential travel Company-wide resulted in a decrease in travel and entertainment expenses of approximately $1,700. Additionally, trade show expenses decreased approximately $1,800 as all events were either cancelled or held virtually due to COVID-19. General and administrative expenses increased $1,157 during the year ended February 28, 2021. Increases in general and administrative expenses were due in part to a net increase in salary expense of approximately $3,300 during the fiscal year. Salary increases were due to higher bonus accruals as a result of the positive performance of the Company for the year ended February 28, 2021, as well as due to increased headcount resulting from the Company new DEI and VSM subsidiaries established in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2020 and the second quarter of Fiscal 2021, respectively. This was offset by the furlough of certain employees during the year ended February 28, 2021, as well as due to the prior year grant of 200,000 fully vested shares of Class A Common Stock to the Company Chief Executive Officer in accordance with his employment agreement, which resulted in compensation expense of approximately $800 for the year ended February 29, 2020 that did not repeat in the current fiscal year. Professional fees also increased by approximately $1,300 as a result of acquisition-related services provided in connection with the Company DEI and VSM subsidiaries and insurance expense increased approximately $400 as a result of the deductible related to an IT security incident in the second quarter of the fiscal year, as well as due to the Company new VSM, DEI, and 11 Trading Company LLC subsidiaries. As an offset to these general and administrative expense increases were decreases related to the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as other factors. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased approximately $1,300, net, for the year ended February 28, 2021 as a result of the impairment of certain definite-lived intangible assets at EyeLock in Fiscal 2020, which reduced the amortizable base of these assets. This was offset by increases in depreciation and amortization expense related to newly acquired 42 tangible and intangible assets within the VSM and DEI subsidiaries . Bad debt expense decreased approximately $1, 1 00 as a result of the prior year reserves of certain customers who filed bankruptcy, which did not repeat in the current year, as well as due to the recovery of certain balances during the year ended February 28, 2021 that were previously written off. The elimination of all non-essential travel as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic resulted in travel and entertainment expense decreases of approximately $900 for the year ended February 28, 2021. Additionally, o ffice and occupancy expenses decreased approximately $700 due to lower overhead, as certain of the Company offices were shut down during the first and second quarters of the fiscal year due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and m any re-opened offices have remained at a reduced capacity through the remainder of the fiscal year. Engineering and technical support expenses for the year ended February 28, 2021 declined $705 as compared to the prior year. For the year ended February 28, 2021, furloughs and headcount reductions at many of the Company locations related to the COVID-19 pandemic resulted in lower labor expenses of approximately $3,000. The elimination of all non-essential travel as a result of the pandemic also resulted in travel and entertainment expense decreases of approximately $500. These decreases were offset by increases in labor of approximately $2,600 as a result of the Company new VSM and DEI subsidiaries established in connection with the Company acquisitions in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2020 and second quarter of Fiscal 2021, respectively. In connection with its annual impairment test performed as of the last day of the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2021, the Company determined that one of its trademarks in the Consumer Electronics segment was impaired. The impairment was the result of shortfalls in sales due to reduced demand of the product category. As a result, an impairment charge of $1,300 was recorded for the year ended February 28, 2021. In connection with its annual impairment test performed as of the last day of the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2020, the Company determined that several of its indefinite-lived intangible assets within the Consumer Electronics segment, as well as certain indefinite-lived and definite-lived intangible assets within the Biometrics segment were impaired. The impairments within the Consumer Electronics segment were the result of the Company being unable to secure product placement into customer stores, anticipated shortfalls in sales due to economic uncertainty as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, reduced demand from a large traditional brick-and-mortar customer, along with continued declines in the German economy. The impairments within the Biometrics segment were the result of lack of customer acceptance of the related technology, lower than anticipated results, adjusted expectations for demand, and anticipated delays of product deployment with target customers due to economic uncertainty related to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Company recorded total impairment charges of $30,230 for the year ended February 29, 2020 related to these impairments. Fiscal 2020 compared to Fiscal 2019 The Company experienced an overall decrease in operating expenses of $3,351 for Fiscal 2020 as compared to Fiscal 2019. Selling expenses have decreased for the year ended February 29, 2020 due to various factors, including headcount reductions related to Fiscal 2019 restructuring activities, lower commissions as a result of the decline in sales for the year, lower trade show expenses due to attending fewer shows, and lower advertising costs and display amortization expense, due to cost cutting measures, as well as the fact that many displays and fixtures are fully amortized or have been removed. These expense decreases were offset by salary increases resulting from transfers of certain employees from general and administrative to selling in conjunction with restructuring activities taking place in Fiscal 2019, and additional hires at the Company Klipsch, Oehlbach and Schwaiger subsidiaries, as well as higher web fees as a result of an increase in the Company online platform activity and web advertising. General and administrative expenses increased during the year ended February 29, 2020. During the year ended February 29, 2020, the Company granted 200,000 fully vested common shares to the Company Chief Executive Officer, as well as granted additional shares which vest on future dates in accordance with his employment agreement signed in July 2019, resulting in an increase in compensation expense of approximately $1,700 for the year ended February 29, 2020. Additionally, during the year ended February 28, 2019, the Company received reimbursement of approximately $3,000 for certain professional fees and disbursements resulting from the favorable outcome of a lawsuit, which did not occur during the year ended February 29, 2020. Disregarding these specific items, general and administrative expenses would have decreased for the year. General and administrative expenses were also higher during the year ended February 29, 2020 due to higher payroll expenses resulting from increased medical claims as compared to the prior year. Offsetting the increases to general and administrative expenses discussed above were decreases in salary expense during the year ended February 29, 2020 due to reductions in 43 headcount and the transfer of certain employees to selling in conjunction with Fiscal 2019 restructuring activities, lower executive salaries due to salary and bonus structures under new employment agreements, as well as lower office and equipment rental expenses as a result of cost containment measures and lease expirations that were not renewed. Engineering and technical support expenses for the year ended February 29, 2020 declined as compared to the prior year. For the year ended February 29, 2020, expenses were down primarily due to headcount reduction at certain of the Company subsidiaries, decreased research and development spending related to projects that were completed during the current year period, as well as due to the movement of work related to certain projects utilizing outside contractors to in-house employees at both EyeLock and Invision. These declines were partially offset by an increase in research and development expenses related to the start of new projects and higher certification fees for certain products under development, as well as salary and related expenses resulting from new hires at certain subsidiaries. In connection with its annual impairment test performed as of the last day of the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2020, the Company determined that several of its indefinite-lived intangible assets within the Consumer Electronics segment, as well as certain indefinite-lived and definite-lived intangible assets within the Biometrics segment were impaired. The impairments within the Consumer Electronics segment were the result of the Company being unable to secure product placement into customer stores, anticipated shortfalls in sales due to economic uncertainty as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, reduced demand from a large traditional brick-and-mortar customer, along with continued declines in the German economy. The impairments within the Biometrics segment were the result of lack of customer acceptance of the related technology, lower than anticipated results, adjusted expectations for demand, and anticipated delays of product deployment with target customers due to economic uncertainty related to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Company recorded total impairment charges of $30,230 for the year ended February 29, 2020 related to these impairments. Other (Expense)Income Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal 2021 2020 2019 Interest and bank charges $ (2,979 ) $ (2,975 ) $ (3,788 ) Equity in income of equity investee 7,350 5,174 6,618 Gain on sale of real property 4,057 Impairment of Venezuela investment properties (3,473 ) Impairment of notes receivable (16,509 ) Investment gain (loss) 42 775 (530 ) Other, net 746 2,332 732 Total other (expense) income $ 5,159 $ 9,363 $ (16,950 ) Fiscal 2021 compared to Fiscal 2020 Interest and bank charges represent expenses for the Company's bank obligations and supply chain financing arrangements, interest related to finance leases, and amortization of deferred financing costs. Interest and bank charges were relatively flat comparing the year ended February 28, 2021 to the prior year. During the second half of Fiscal 2020, the Company repaid the entire outstanding balance of its asset-based lending facility in Germany, thus eliminating the interest expense related to this obligation for the year ended February 28, 2021, which was offset by interest paid on the $20,000 precautionary borrowing from the Company Credit Facility in Fiscal 2021, which was outstanding from April 2020 through November 2020. Equity in income of equity investee represents the Company's share of income from its 50% non-controlling ownership interest in ASA Electronics, LLC ("ASA"). The increase in income for the year ended February 28, 2021 is due to an increase in ASA gross profit, lower overhead, and growth in the RV and marine markets. On September 30, 2019, the Company, through its subsidiary Voxx German Holdings Gmbh (the Seller ), sold its real property in Pulheim, Germany to CLM S.A. RL (the Purchaser ) for 10,920. Net proceeds received from the transaction were approximately $9,500 after transactional costs and repayment of the outstanding mortgage. Concurrently with the sale, the Seller entered into an operating lease arrangement with the Purchaser for a small portion of the real property to continue to operate its sales office in Germany. The transaction qualified for sale 44 leaseback accounting in accordance with ASC 842 and the Company recognized a gain on the execution of the sale transaction for the year ended February 29, 2020. During Fiscal 2018, the Company sold its investment in RxNetworks, a non-controlled corporation, consisting of shares of the investee preferred stock. Voxx recognized a gain during Fiscal 2018 for the sale of this investment; however, a portion of the cash proceeds were subject to a hold-back provision, which was not included in the gain recognized in Fiscal 2018. During the second quarter of Fiscal 2020, the hold-back provision expired, and the Company received additional proceeds from the sale, recording an investment gain of $775 for the year ended February 29, 2020. A final payout of $42 received in November 2020 was recorded as an investment gain for the year ended February 28, 2021. During the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2019, all of the outstanding common stock of Fathom Systems Inc., a non-controlled corporation in which Voxx was invested, were repurchased by the investee for a price per share significantly below the value when issued. This resulted in a loss on Voxx's investment in Fathom of $530 for the year ended February 28, 2019. Other, net includes net foreign currency gains or losses, interest income, rental income, and other miscellaneous income and expense. Other, net decreased for the year ended February 28, 2021. During the year ended February 28, 2021, interest income decreased $835 primarily as a result of lower interest rates applicable to the Company short term money market investments and lower cash balances available for investment during the year. Additionally, the Company had foreign currency losses of $(862) for the year ended February 28, 2021, as compared to foreign currency gains of $405 for the year ended February 29, 2020. Fiscal 2020 compared to Fiscal 2019 Interest and bank charges represent expenses for the Company's bank obligations and supply chain financing arrangements, interest related to finance leases, and amortization of deferred financing costs. During the second and third quarters of Fiscal 2020, the Company temporarily suspended its domestic supply chain financing, thus resulting in a reduction of the related fees. The Company also repaid two of its outstanding mortgages and the entire outstanding balance of its asset-based lending obligation in Germany during the second half of Fiscal 2020, thus reducing interest expense related to these obligations. Equity in income of equity investee represents the Company's share of income from its 50% non-controlling ownership interest in ASA Electronics, LLC ("ASA"). The decrease in income for the year ended February 29, 2020 is primarily a result of the impact of tariffs, increase in warranty costs, as well as due to certain product recall expenses incurred during the year ended February 29, 2020 that were not present in the prior year. On September 30, 2019, the Company, through its subsidiary Voxx German Holdings Gmbh (the Seller ), sold its real property in Pulheim, Germany to CLM S.A. RL (the Purchaser ) for 10,920. Net proceeds received from the transaction were approximately $9,500 after transactional costs and repayment of the outstanding mortgage. Concurrently with the sale, the Seller entered into an operating lease arrangement with the Purchaser for a small portion of the real property to continue to operate its sales office in Germany. The transaction qualified for sale leaseback accounting in accordance with ASC 842 and the Company recognized a gain on the execution of the sale transaction for the year ended February 29, 2020. During Fiscal 2018, the Company sold its investment in RxNetworks, a non-controlled corporation, consisting of shares of the investee preferred stock. Voxx recognized a gain of $1,416 during Fiscal 2018 for the sale of this investment; however, a portion of the cash proceeds were subject to a hold-back provision, which was not included in the gain recognized in Fiscal 2018. During the second quarter of Fiscal 2020, the hold-back provision expired, and the Company received the remaining proceeds from the sale, recording an investment gain of $775 for the year ended February 29, 2020. During the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2019, all of the outstanding common stock of Fathom Systems Inc., a non-controlled corporation in which Voxx was invested, were repurchased by the investee for a price per share significantly below the value when issued. This resulted in a loss on Voxx's investment in Fathom of $530 for the year ended February 28, 2019. Other, net includes net foreign currency gains or losses, interest income, rental income, and other miscellaneous income and expense. Other, net increased for the year ended February 29, 2020. During the year ended February 29, 2020, the Company received the proceeds from a key man life insurance policy in the amount of $1,000, related to a former employee of Klipsch Group, Inc. that Voxx became the beneficiary of in conjunction with the acquisition of Klipsch in Fiscal 2012. As an offset to this income, the Company incurred a charge of $804 during the year ended 45 February 29, 2020 for a payment made to TE Connectivity Ltd. in final settlement of the working capital calculation related to the Fiscal 2018 sale of Hirschmann Car Communication GmbH. Income Tax Provision On March 27, 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act ( CARES Act ) was enacted in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Under ASC 740, the effects of changes in tax rates and laws are recognized in the period in which the new legislation is enacted. The CARES Act made various tax law changes including among other things (i) increased the limitation under IRC Section 163(j) for 2019 and 2020 to permit additional expensing of interest; (ii) enacted technical correction so that qualified improvement property can be immediately expensed under IRC Section 168(k) (iii) made modifications to the federal net operating loss rules including permitting federal net operating losses incurred in 2018, 2019, and 2020 to be carried back to the five preceding taxable years in order to generate a refund of previously paid income taxes, and (iv) enhanced recoverability of alternative minimum credit carryforwards. The CARES Act did not have a material impact on the income tax provision. During Fiscal 2021, the Company recorded an income tax provision of $4,272 related to federal, state, and foreign taxes. The Company's effective tax rate of 15.5% differs from the statutory rate of 21% primarily related to (i) partial release of its valuation allowance as a result of recent profitability for which certain of the Company deferred tax assets became realizable on a more-likely-than-not basis; (ii) permanent differences, including the non-controlling interest and a global intangible low tax income ( GILTI ) inclusion; and (iii) state and local taxes. As of February 28, 2021, the Company continued to maintain a valuation allowance against certain U.S. and foreign deferred tax assets as the Company could not conclude that such assets will be realized on a more-likely-than-not basis. Any decline in the valuation allowance could have a favorable impact on our income tax provision and net income in the period in which such determination is made. The effective tax rate of (2.2)% in Fiscal 2020 differs from the statutory rate of 21% primarily related to (i) current year losses for which limited tax benefit was provided; (ii) permanent differences, including the non-controlling interest and a global intangible low tax income ( GILTI ) inclusion; and (iii) an increase in the valuation allowance recorded against foreign deferred tax assets. During Fiscal 2020, the Company maintained a partial and full valuation allowance against certain U.S. and foreign deferred tax assets as the Company could not conclude that such assets will be realized on a more-likely-than-not basis. Any decline in the valuation allowance could have a favorable impact on our income tax provision and net income in the period in which such determination is made. The effective tax rate of 10.4% in Fiscal 2019 differs from the statutory rate of 21% primarily related to current year losses for which limited tax benefit was provided. During Fiscal 2019, the Company maintained a partial valuation allowance against certain U.S. and foreign deferred tax assets as the Company could not conclude that such assets will be realized on a more-likely-than-not basis. Any decline in the valuation allowance could have a favorable impact on our income tax provision and net income in the period in which such determination is made. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are not financial measures recognized by GAAP. EBITDA represents net income (loss), computed in accordance with GAAP, before interest expense and bank charges, taxes, and depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA adjusted for stock-based compensation expense, life insurance proceeds, certain settlements, gains and losses, impairment charges, restructuring charges, and environmental remediation charges. Depreciation, amortization, stock-based compensation, and impairment charges are non-cash items. We present EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA in this Form 10-K because we consider them to be useful and appropriate supplemental measures of our performance. Adjusted EBITDA helps us to evaluate our performance without the effects of certain GAAP calculations that may not have a direct cash impact on our current operating performance. In addition, the exclusion of certain costs or gains relating to certain events that occurred during the periods presented allows for a more meaningful comparison of our results from period-to-period. These non-GAAP measures, as we define them, are not necessarily comparable to similarly entitled measures of other companies and may not be an appropriate measure for performance relative to other companies. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA should not be assessed in isolation from, are not intended to represent, and should not be considered to be more meaningful measures than, or alternatives to, measures of operating performance as determined in accordance with GAAP. 46 Reconciliation of GAAP Net Income Attributable to VOXX International Corporation to EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal 2021 2020 2019 Net income (loss) attributable to VOXX International Corporation $ 26,767 $ (26,443 ) $ (46,091 ) Adjustments: Interest expense and bank charges (1) 2,404 2,476 2,223 Depreciation and amortization (1) 10,907 11,175 11,112 Income tax expense (benefit) 4,272 882 (6,131 ) EBITDA 44,350 (11,910 ) (38,887 ) Adjustments: Stock-based compensation 1,749 2,282 551 Life insurance proceeds (420 ) (1,000 ) Gain on sale of real property (4,057 ) Settlement of Hirschmann working capital 804 Impairment of investment properties in Venezuela 3,473 Impairment of notes receivable 16,509 Investment (gain) loss (42 ) (775 ) 530 Environmental remediation charges 454 Restructuring charges 4,588 Intangible asset impairment charges (1) 1,300 19,543 25,789 Adjusted EBITDA $ 46,937 $ 4,887 $ 13,007 (1) For purposes of calculating Adjusted EBITDA for the Company, interest expense, bank charges, depreciation and amortization, and intangible asset impairment charges added back to net income (loss) have been adjusted in order to exclude the minority interest portion of these expenses attributable to EyeLock LLC. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flows, Commitments and Obligations As of February 28, 2021, we had working capital of $172,543 which includes cash and cash equivalents of $59,404 compared with working capital of $146,798 at February 29, 2020, which included cash and cash equivalents of $37,425. We plan to utilize our current cash position as well as collections from accounts receivable, the cash generated from our operations, when applicable, and the income on our investments to fund the current operations of the business. However, we may utilize all or a portion of current capital resources to pursue other business opportunities, including acquisitions, or to further pay down our debt. The following table summarizes our cash flow activity for all periods presented: Year Ended Year Ended Year Ended February 28, 2021 February 29, 2020 February 28, 2019 Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 36,611 $ (1,009 ) $ 22,562 Investing activities (13,865 ) (6,709 ) (11,037 ) Financing activities (1,940 ) (12,593 ) (924 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash 1,173 (500 ) (4,105 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 21,979 $ (20,811 ) $ 6,496 47 Net cash used in/provided by operating activities: Operating activities provided cash of $36,611 for Fiscal 2021, due to factors including sales increases, as well as increases in accounts payable, accrued expenses, and accrued sales incentives. This was offset by increases in inventory and accounts receivable, which were driven by the increases in sales during the fiscal year, as well as due to losses incurred by EyeLock LLC. During Fiscal 2020, operating activities used cash of $1,009, due to factors including sales declines and losses incurred by EyeLock LLC, as well as decreases in accounts payable, accrued expenses, and accrued sales incentives. This was offset by decreases in inventory and accounts receivable, which were driven by the decreases in sales. During Fiscal 2019, operating activities provided cash of $22,562, partially due to a decrease in inventory, as the Company purchases its inventory in line with sales levels, which have declined in the current fiscal year, as well as a decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets. This was offset by lower earnings achieved by the Company in Fiscal 2019, driven in part by sales declines and losses incurred by EyeLock LLC. The Company also had a decrease in accounts receivable, directly resulting from lower sales in the fiscal year. Net cash used in/provided by investing activities: Investing activities used cash of $13,865 during Fiscal 2021, primarily due to the acquisition of DEI in July 2020 (see Note 2), as well as capital additions made by the Company. Investing activities used cash of $6,709 during Fiscal 2020, primarily due to the acquisition of VSM in January 2020 (see Note 2), as well as capital additions made by the Company. This was offset by the proceeds received from the sale of the Company real property in Pulheim, Germany (see Note 11). Investing activities used cash of $11,037 during Fiscal 2019, primarily as a result of the issuance of notes receivable to 360fly, Inc. (see Note 1(f)), as well as capital additions made by the Company. Net cash used in/provided by financing activities: Financing activities used cash of $1,940 during Fiscal 2021, primarily due to the repayment of the Company precautionary borrowing of $20,000 from the Credit Facility, payments on the Florida Mortgage, repayments of finance leases, and the payment of deferred finance fees related to the amendment of the Credit Facility in Fiscal 2021, offset by the precautionary borrowing of $20,000 made in April 2020. During Fiscal 2020, financing activities used cash of $12,593, primarily due to the repayment of outstanding bank obligations, including the entire outstanding balance of Voxx Germany Euro asset-based lending facility, and the repurchase of shares of the Company Class A common stock. During Fiscal 2019, financing activities used cash of $924 primarily due to the repayment of outstanding bank obligations, which include mortgages, capital leases, and an asset-based lending facility in Germany, offset by borrowings related to the German asset-based lending facility. The Company has a senior secured credit facility (the "Credit Facility") that provides for a revolving credit facility with committed availability of up to $127,500. The Credit Facility also includes a $30,000 sublimit for letters of credit and a $15,000 sublimit for swingline loans. The availability under the revolving credit line within the Credit Facility is subject to a borrowing base, which is based on eligible accounts receivable, eligible inventory and certain real estate, subject to reserves as determined by the lender, and is also limited by amounts outstanding under the Florida Mortgage (see Note 7(b)). As of February 28, 2021, there was no balance outstanding under the revolving credit facility. The availability under the revolving credit line of the Credit Facility was $96,745 as of February 28, 2021. All amounts outstanding under the Credit Facility will mature and become due on April 26, 2022; however, it is subject to acceleration upon the occurrence of an Event of Default (as defined in the Credit Agreement). The Company may prepay any amounts outstanding at any time, subject to payment of certain breakage and redeployment costs relating to LIBOR Rate Loans. The commitments under the Credit Facility may be irrevocably reduced at any time, without premium or penalty, as set forth in the Credit Facility. 48 Generally, the Company may designate specific borrowings under the Credit Facility as either Base Rate Loans or LIBOR Rate Loans, except that swingline loans may only be designated as Base Rate Loans. Loans under the Credit Facility designated as LIBOR Rate Loans shall bear interest at a rate equal to the then-applicable LIBOR Rate plus a range of 2 . 00 % - 2. 50 %. Loans under the Credit Facility designated as Base Rate Loans shall bear interest at a rate equal to the applicable margin for Base Rate Loans of 1 . 00 % - 1. 50 %, as defined in the Credit Facility . Provided that the Company is in a Compliance Period (the period commencing on that day in which Excess Availability is less than 20% of the Maximum Revolver Amount and ending on a day in which Excess Availability is equal to or greater than 20% for any consecutive 30-day period thereafter), the Credit Facility requires compliance with a financial covenant calculated as of the last day of each month, consisting of a Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio. The Credit Facility also contains covenants, subject to defined carveouts, that limit the ability of the loan parties and certain of their subsidiaries which are not loan parties to, among other things: (i) incur additional indebtedness; (ii) incur liens; (iii) merge, consolidate or dispose of a substantial portion of their business; (iv) transfer or dispose of assets; (v) change their name, organizational identification number, state or province of organization or organizational identity; (vi) make any material change in their nature of business; (vii) prepay or otherwise acquire indebtedness; (viii) cause any Change of Control; (ix) make any Restricted Junior Payment; (x) change their fiscal year or method of accounting; (xi) make advances, loans or investments; (xii) enter into or permit any transaction with an Affiliate of any Borrower or any of their Subsidiaries; (xiii) use proceeds for certain items; (xiv) issue or sell any of their stock; or (xv) consign or sell any of their inventory on certain terms. In addition, if excess availability under the Credit Facility were to fall below certain specified levels, as defined in the agreement, the lenders would have the right to assume dominion and control over the Company's cash. As of February 28, 2021, the Company was not in a Compliance Period. The obligations under the Credit Facility are secured by a general lien on and security interest in substantially all of the assets of the borrowers and certain of the guarantors, including accounts receivable, equipment, real estate, general intangibles, and inventory. The Company has guaranteed the obligations of the borrowers under the Credit Facility. On April 19, 2021, the Company amended the Credit Facility. Under the amendment, the committed availability of the revolving credit facility was revised to $140,000 and the maturity date of the facility was extended to April 19, 2026 (see Note 17). The Company has a Euro asset-based loan facility in Germany with a credit limit of 8,000 that expires on July 31, 2023. The Company's subsidiaries Voxx German Holdings GmbH, Oehlbach Kabel GmbH, and Schwaiger GmbH are authorized to borrow funds under this facility for working capital purposes. The Company also utilizes supply chain financing arrangements and factoring agreements from time to time as a component of its financing for working capital, which accelerates receivable collection and helps to better manage cash flow. Under these agreements, the Company has agreed from time to time to sell certain of its accounts receivable balances to banking institutions who have agreed to advance amounts equal to the net accounts receivable balances due, less a discount as set forth in the respective agreements (see Note 1(h)). The balances under these agreements are accounted for as sales of accounts receivable, as they are sold without recourse. Cash proceeds from these agreements are reflected as operating activities included in the change in accounts receivable in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Fees incurred in connection with the agreements are recorded as interest expense by the Company. During Fiscal 2020, the Company temporarily suspended its domestic supply chain financing activities; however, the Company has resumed its activities under all supply chain financing arrangements during Fiscal 2021 in response to general economic concerns related to the COVID-19 pandemic. As noted elsewhere in this report, we expect the COVID-19 pandemic may continue to have an adverse effect on our business. Federal, state, and local governments have taken a variety of actions to contain the spread of COVID-19. Many jurisdictions required mandatory business closures or imposed capacity limitations and other restrictions affecting our operations during Fiscal 2021. We have proactively taken steps to increase available cash including, but not limited to, utilizing existing supply chain financing agreements that had previously been suspended during Fiscal 2020 as noted above, and utilizing funds available under our existing Credit Facility. In April 2020, the Company borrowed $20,000 from its available Credit Facility funds, which was subsequently repaid in November 2020. As further noted in Item 7 and elsewhere in this report, the Company also implemented a number of other measures to help preserve liquidity in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. 49 Certain contractual cash obligations and other commitments will impact our short and long-term liquidity. At February 28, 2021 , such obligations and commitments are as follows: Amount of Commitment Expiration per Period Less than 1-3 4-5 After Contractual Cash Obligations Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years Finance lease obligations (1) $ 720 $ 418 $ 302 $ $ Operating lease obligations (1) 4,701 1,119 1,581 912 1,089 Total contractual cash obligations $ 5,421 $ 1,537 $ 1,883 $ 912 $ 1,089 Other Commitments Bank obligations (2) $ $ $ $ $ Stand-by letters of credit (3) 19,656 19,656 Other (4) 7,114 500 1,000 1,000 4,614 Pension obligation (5) 827 827 Unconditional purchase obligations (6) 158,886 158,886 Total commercial commitments $ 186,483 $ 179,042 $ 1,000 $ 1,000 $ 5,441 Total Commitments $ 191,904 $ 180,579 $ 2,883 $ 1,912 $ 6,530 (1) Represents total principal payments due under finance and operating lease obligations. Total current balances (included in other current liabilities) due under finance and operating leases are $418 and $1,119, respectively, at February 28, 2021. Total long-term balances due under finance and operating leases are $302 and $3,582, respectively at February 28, 2021. (2) Represents amounts outstanding under the Company domestic Credit Facility and the VOXX Germany asset-based lending facilities at February 28, 2021. (3) We issue standby letters of credit to secure certain purchases and insurance requirements. These letters of credit are issued during the ordinary course of business through major domestic banks as requested by certain suppliers. (4) This amount represents the outstanding balance of the mortgage for our manufacturing facility in Florida. (5) Represents the liability for an employer defined benefit pension plan covering certain eligible current and former employees of VOXX Germany. (6) Open purchase obligations represent inventory commitments. These obligations are not recorded in the consolidated financial statements until commitments are fulfilled and such obligations are subject to change based on negotiations with manufacturers. We regularly review our cash funding requirements and attempt to meet those requirements through a combination of cash on hand, cash provided by operations, available borrowings under bank lines of credit and possible future public or private debt and/or equity offerings. At times, we evaluate possible acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses that are complementary to ours, which transactions may require the use of cash. We believe that our cash, other liquid assets, operating cash flows, credit arrangements, and access to equity capital markets, taken together, provides adequate resources to fund ongoing operating expenditures for the next twelve months, including the intercompany loan funding we provide to our majority owned subsidiary, EyeLock LLC. In the event that they do not, we may require additional funds in the future to support our working capital requirements, or for other purposes, and may seek to raise such additional funds through the sale of public or private equity and/or debt financings, as well as from other sources. No assurance can be given that additional financing will be available in the future or that if available, such financing will be obtainable on terms favorable when required. For further information about COVID-19, refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors , Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations , " and Note 17, Subsequent Events , of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 50 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not maintain any off-balance sheet arrangements, transactions, obligations, or other relationships with unconsolidated entities that would be expected to have a material current or future effect upon our financial condition or results of operations. Impact of Inflation and Currency Fluctuation Inflation did not have a material impact on our operations for the years ended February 28, 2021, February 29, 2020 or February 28, 2019. Severe increases in inflation, however, could affect the global and U.S. economies and could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Discussion of the impact of foreign currency fluctuations is included in Item 7A. In accordance with the guidelines in ASC 830, Venezuela is designated as a hyper-inflationary economy. A hyper-inflationary economy designation occurs when a country has experienced cumulative inflation of approximately 100 percent or more over a 3-year period. The hyper-inflationary designation requires our local subsidiary in Venezuela to record all transactions as if they were denominated in U.S. dollars. Net currency exchange gains (losses) of $37 and $(2) were recorded for the years ended February 28, 2021 and February 29, 2020, respectively. All currency exchange gains and losses are included in Other (Expense) Income on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss). The Company has certain U. S. dollar denominated assets and liabilities in its Venezuelan subsidiary, including our U.S. dollar denominated intercompany debt, which has been subject to currency fluctuations associated with the devaluation of the Sovereign Bolivar. The Company also has certain long-lived assets in Venezuela, which are held for investment purposes. During the second quarter of Fiscal 2019, the Company assessed the recoverability of these properties as a result of the country's continued economic deterioration, which included a significant currency devaluation in August of 2018. The Company estimated the future undiscounted cash flows expected to be received from these properties. The estimate of the future undiscounted cash flows considered the Company financial condition and its intent and ability to retain its investments for a period of time sufficient to allow for the recovery of the carrying value. The future undiscounted cash flows did not exceed the net carrying value for the long-lived assets. The estimated fair value of the properties, which also considered the current conditions of the economy in Venezuela, the volatility of the real estate market, and the significant political unrest, resulted in a full non-cash impairment charge of $3,473 for the year ended February 28, 2019. This non-cash impairment charge is included in Other (expense) income on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss). Seasonality We typically experience seasonality in our operations. Our business is significantly impacted by the holiday season, as we generally sell a substantial amount of our products during September, October, and November due to increased promotional and advertising activities during the holiday season. Related Party Transactions None noted. Recent Accounting Pronouncements We are required to adopt certain new accounting pronouncements. See Note 1(w) of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 51 Item 7A-Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk The market risk inherent in our financial instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in marketable equity security prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. Marketable Securities Marketable securities at February 28, 2021, which are related to the Company's deferred compensation plan, are recorded at fair value of $1,777 and have exposure to price fluctuations. This risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in prices quoted by stock exchanges and amounts to $178 as of February 28, 2021. Actual results may differ. Interest Rate Risk Our earnings and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to changes in interest rates on investments of available cash balances in money market funds and investment grade corporate and U.S. government securities. In addition, our bank loans expose us to changes in short-term interest rates since interest rates on the underlying obligations are either variable or fixed. In connection with our Florida Mortgage, we have debt outstanding in the amount of $7,114 at February 28, 2021. Interest on the Florida Mortgage is charged at 70% of 1-month LIBOR plus 1.54%. We have an interest rate swap for the Florida Mortgage with a notional amount of $7,114 at February 28, 2021 which locks the interest rate at 3.48% (inclusive of credit spread) through the mortgage end date of March 2026. Foreign Exchange Risk Voxx conducts business in various non-U.S. countries including Germany, Canada, China, Denmark, the Netherlands, and France and thus is exposed to market risk for changes in foreign currency exchange rates. As a result, we have exposure to various foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations for revenues generated by our operations outside of the U.S., which can adversely impact our net income and cash flows. A hypothetical 10% adverse change in the foreign currency rates for our international operations would have resulted in a negative impact on sales and net income of approximately $9,190 and $1,010, respectively, for the year ended February 28, 2021. While the prices we pay for products purchased from our suppliers are principally denominated in United States dollars, price negotiations depend in part on the foreign currency of foreign manufacturers, as well as market, trade, and political factors. The Company also has exposure related to transactions in which the currency collected from customers is different from the currency utilized to purchase the product sold in its foreign operations, and U. S. dollar denominated purchases in its foreign subsidiaries. The Company enters forward contracts to hedge certain Euro-related transactions. The Company minimizes the risk of nonperformance on the forward contracts by transacting with major financial institutions. During Fiscal 2021, 2020, and 2019, the Company held forward contracts specifically designated for hedging (see Note 1(e) of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). As of February 28, 2021 and February 29, 2020, unrealized (losses) gains of $(720) and $331, respectively, were recorded in other comprehensive income associated with these contracts. A hypothetical 10% adverse change in the fair value of our forward exchange contracts would have resulted in a negative impact of $32 on the fair value of our forward exchange contracts at February 28, 2021. There were no foreign currency hedge contracts outstanding at February 29, 2020. We are also subject to risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates from the translation of financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries and for long-term intercompany loans with foreign subsidiaries. These changes result in cumulative translation adjustments, which are included in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income. At February 28, 2021, we had translation exposure to various foreign currencies with the most significant being the Euro, Canadian Dollar, and Mexican Peso. A hypothetical 10% adverse change in the foreign currency exchange rates would result in a negative impact of $124 on Other comprehensive (loss) income for the year ended February 28, 2021. 52 The Company continues to monitor the political and economic climate in Venezuela. The Company did not have any sales in Venezuela for the year ended February 28, 2021 and had no significant cash related assets subject to government foreign exchange controls. The Company has certain long-lived assets in Venezuela, which are held for investment purposes. During the second quarter of Fiscal 2019, the Company assess ed the recoverability of these properties as a result of the country's continued economic deterioration, which included a significant currency devaluation in August of 2018. The Company concluded that these properties were fully impaired as of its second quarter ended August 31, 2018 and recorded an impairment charge of $3,473 for the year ended February 28, 2019. The non-cash impairment charge is included in Other ( e xpense) i ncome on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive (Loss) Income . The Company's properties held for investment purposes in Venezuela had no value as of February 28, 2021 . 
