CIK: 1049502
Company Name: MKS INSTRUMENTS INC
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2023-03-14
Accession Number: 0000950170-23-007851


Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ( MD&A ), describes principal factors affecting the results of our operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity, as well as our critical accounting policies and estimates that require significant judgment and thus have the most significant potential impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements, and is intended to better allow investors to view the Company from management perspective. This section focuses on material events and uncertainties known to management that are reasonably likely to cause reported financial information not to be necessarily indicative of our future operating results or of our future financial condition. This section provides an analysis of our financial results for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. For the discussion and analysis covering the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, please refer to Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021, as filed with the SEC on February 28, 2022. Overview We enable technologies that transform our world. We deliver foundational technology solutions to leading edge semiconductor manufacturing, electronics and packaging, and specialty industrial applications. We apply our broad science and engineering capabilities to create instruments, subsystems, systems, process control solutions and specialty chemicals technology that improve process performance, optimize productivity and enable unique innovations for many of the world's leading technology and industrial companies. Our solutions are critical to addressing the challenges of miniaturization and complexity in advanced device manufacturing by enabling increased power, speed, feature enhancement and optimized connectivity. Our solutions are also critical to addressing ever-increasing performance requirements across a wide array of specialty industrial applications. Recent Events Atotech Acquisition On August 17, 2022 (the Effective Date ), we completed the acquisition of Atotech Limited ( Atotech ) through the acquisition of the entire issued share capital of Atotech (the Atotech Acquisition ) by Atotech Manufacturing, Inc. ( Bidco ), a Delaware corporation and indirect wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. The Atotech Acquisition was implemented by means of a scheme of arrangement under the laws of Jersey (the Scheme ) pursuant to the definitive agreement entered into by us and Atotech on July 1, 2021, as amended by the Letter Agreement dated October 29, 2021 by and among us, Atotech and Bidco, and as further amended by the Amendment to the Implementation Agreement dated April 1, 2022 by and among us, Atotech and Bidco (together, the Implementation Agreement ). Atotech, which we operate as our Materials Solutions Division, develops leading process and manufacturing technologies for advanced surface modification, electroless and electrolytic plating, and surface finishing. Applying a comprehensive systems-and-solutions approach, Atotech's portfolio includes chemistry, equipment, software, and services for innovative and high-technology applications in a wide variety of end markets. Atotech further broadens our capabilities by bringing leadership in critical chemistry solutions for electronics and packaging and specialty industrial applications. On the Effective Date, pursuant to the Scheme and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Implementation Agreement, Bidco acquired each issued and outstanding ordinary share of Atotech in exchange for per share consideration of $16.20 in cash and 0.0552 of a share of Company common stock. The total net purchase price, including cash consideration, net of cash acquired, value of MKS shares issued, repayment of Atotech debt and settlement of certain Atotech share-based awards, totaled $5.7 billion. We funded the payment of the aggregate cash consideration with a combination of cash on hand and the proceeds from the New Term Loan Facility, as defined below. As a result of the Atotech Acquisition, we issued an aggregate of 10.7 million shares of our common stock to the former Atotech shareholders. 41 Ransomware Event On February 3, 2023, we identified that we had become subject to a ransomware event and took immediate action to activate our incident response and business continuity protocols to contain the incident. We took immediate action to contain the incident and engaged appropriate incident response professionals and notified law enforcement authorities. We then initiated the recovery phase, contained the incident, and have since made substantial progress by completing restoration of many of our information technology systems, including our enterprise resource planning systems, and reopening certain of our affected manufacturing and service operations. Based on our investigation, we concluded ransomware actors encrypted certain of our systems by deploying malware. This incident required us to temporarily suspend operations at certain of our facilities and has had a material impact in the first quarter of 2023 on our ability to process orders, ship products and provide service to our Vacuum Solutions Division and Photonics Solutions Division customers. The incident did not impact the operations of our Materials Solutions Division. We expect this incident will have a negative impact on our revenue for the first quarter of 2023 of at least $200 million. We have engaged security specialists to assist in the review, assessment and remediation of our information technologies controls, are strengthening access requirements and unauthorized access detection and are implementing procedures to facilitate more timely restoration of our financial reporting systems. We have incurred costs in the first quarter of 2023 and expect to continue to incur costs, which may be significant, in connection with this incident. In the first quarter of 2023, these costs have been primarily comprised of various third-party consulting services, including forensic experts, restoration experts, legal counsel, and other information technology and accounting professional expenses, enhancements to our cybersecurity measures, costs to restore our systems and access our data, and employee-related expenses, including with respect to increased overtime. We expect to incur these and other costs related to this incident in the future. As a result of the incident, our relationship with our customers may be negatively impacted and we may be subject to subsequent investigations, claims or actions, in addition to other costs, fines, penalties, or other obligations related to impacted data, whether or not such data is misused. In addition, we are subject to a class action lawsuit arising from this ransomware event. We are unable to predict at this time the potential timing and outcome of the claim and whether we may be subject to further private litigation or inquiries and proceedings by various government agencies, law enforcement and other governmental authorities. For additional information on the risks we face related to this incident and other cybersecurity incidents, refer to Risk Factors Risks Related to Cybersecurity, Data Privacy and Intellectual Property Protection and Risk Factors Legal, Tax, Regulatory and Compliance Risks in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Segments and Markets In the first quarter of 2022, we updated the names of our then-three divisions in order to simplify our naming convention. These divisions, formerly known as the Vacuum & Analysis Division, the Light & Motion Division and the Equipment & Solutions Division, were renamed the Vacuum Solutions Division ( VSD ), the Photonics Solutions Division ( PSD ) and the Equipment Solutions Division ( ESD ), respectively. Following the Atotech Acquisition, we refer to Atotech as our Materials Solutions Division ( MSD ). During the third quarter of 2022, we consolidated our equipment solutions business, previously ESD, into PSD, with prior periods recast to reflect this change. Our reportable segments now consist of our three divisions: VSD, PSD and MSD. VSD delivers foundational technology solutions to leading edge semiconductor manufacturing, electronics and packaging and specialty industrial applications. VSD products are derived from our core competencies in pressure measurement and control, flow measurement and control, gas and vapor delivery, gas composition analysis, electronic control technology, reactive gas generation and delivery, power generation and delivery, and vacuum technology. PSD provides a full range of solutions including lasers, beam measurement and profiling, precision motion control, vibration isolation systems, photonics instruments, temperature sensing, opto-mechanical components, optical elements, laser-based systems for flexible printed circuit board ( PCB ) processing, laser-based systems for high density interconnect PCB and package manufacturing, and high-speed multi-layer ceramic testing. MSD develops leading process and manufacturing technologies for advanced surface modification, electroless and electrolytic plating, and surface finishing. Atotech is a brand within MSD. Applying a comprehensive systems-and-solutions approach, MSD's portfolio includes chemistry, equipment, software, and services for innovative and high-technology applications in a wide variety of end-markets. 42 Semiconductor Market MKS is a critical solutions provider for semiconductor manufacturing. Our products are used in major semiconductor processing steps, such as depositing thin films of material onto silicon wafer substrates, etching, cleaning, lithography, metrology and inspection. The semiconductor industry continually faces new challenges as products become smaller, more powerful and highly mobile. Ultra-thin layers, smaller critical dimensions, new materials, 3D structures, and the ongoing need for higher yield and productivity drive the need for tighter process measurement and control, all of which MKS supports. We believe we are the broadest critical subsystem provider in the wafer fabrication equipment ( WFE ) ecosystem and address over 85% of the market. Approximately 58% and 62% of our net revenues for 2022 and 2021, respectively, were from sales to customers in the semiconductor market. We estimate global spending on WFE was approximately $97 billion in 2022 compared to approximately $89 billion in 2021, driven by increases in memory and logic and reflective of strong secular demand trends increasing semiconductor demand, such as robust data growth, 5G, Internet-of-Things, artificial intelligence, and autonomous vehicles. We anticipate that the semiconductor market will continue to account for a substantial portion of our sales. Following the Atotech Acquisition, our end-market exposure has become more diversified and in the fourth quarter of 2022, revenue from the semiconductor market was 46% of total net revenues. Net revenues in our semiconductor market increased by $216 million, or 12%, in 2022, compared to 2021, due to increases in net revenues in VSD and PSD. VSD net revenues in our semiconductor market increased $114 million due to broad-based increases in demand and volume increases for VSD products. PSD net revenues in our semiconductor market increased $102 million, driven by demand for our photonics solutions in lithography, metrology and inspection, as well as contributions from our acquisition of Photon Control Inc. ( Photon Control ) in July 2021. Foreign exchange rates had a negative effect of approximately $82 million on net revenues in our semiconductor market, as the U.S. dollar strengthened against most foreign currencies in 2022. The semiconductor capital equipment industry is subject to rapid demand shifts, which are difficult to predict, and we cannot be certain as to the timing or extent of future demand or any future weakness in the semiconductor capital equipment industry. We anticipate that our semiconductor market revenue could decrease in 2023 as a result of expected softening in the semiconductor market following three years of significant growth. In 2022, we experienced continued supply chain disruptions, component shortages and significant price increases for certain components in our semiconductor market due to global capacity constraints compounded by increasing global demand and the COVID-19 pandemic. We expect these disruptions and shortages to continue for at least the near-term. In October 2022, the U.S. Department of Commerce's Bureau of Industry and Security ( BIS ) published regulations that introduce new and novel restrictions related to end-uses in semiconductor, semiconductor manufacturing, supercomputer, and advanced computing, along with certain equipment used to develop and produce them (the New BIS Rules ). The New BIS Rules restrict our direct and indirect sales to China and primarily impact our semiconductor market. As a result of the New BIS Rules, we expect an overall annualized reduction of net revenues in the range of $250 million to $350 million. While we continue to adjust our policies and practices to ensure compliance with these regulations, and we will seek to mitigate their impact, there can be no assurances that the New BIS Rules will not have an effect on our business that exceeds our expectations. Electronics and Packaging MKS is a foundational solutions provider for the electronics and packaging market. Our portfolio includes photonics components, laser drilling systems, electronics chemistries and plating equipment, that are critical for the manufacturing of PCBs and package substrates, as well as in wafer level packaging ( WLP ) applications. Similar to the semiconductor industry, the PCB, package substrate and WLP industries demand smaller features, greater density, and better performance. We characterize our complementary offering of laser systems and chemistry solutions as Optimize the Interconnect, to reflect the unique technology enablement we provide at the Interconnect level within PCBs, package substrates and WLPs. In addition, this end-market also includes sales of our vacuum and photonics solutions for display manufacturing applications. Approximately 15% and 12% of our net revenues for 2022 and 2021, respectively, were from sales to customers in our electronic and packaging market. Net revenues from customers in our electronics and packaging market increased by $197 million, or 57%, in 2022 compared to 2021. This increase was driven primarily by the Atotech Acquisition, with MSD net revenues of $334 million in 2022, mainly from customers in PCB manufacturing. This increase was offset by a decrease of $134 million in PSD net revenues, in part due to decreased industry demand for flexible PCB via drilling systems as customers have temporarily slowed capacity expansion. In addition, demand for flexible PCB via drilling systems, which are a part of PSD, and demand for chemistry solutions, which are a part of MSD, have softened due to a decline in end market demand for electronics, such as smartphones and personal computers. 43 In addition, foreign exchange rates had a negative effect of approximately $14 million on net revenues in our electronics and packaging market, as the dollar strengthened against most foreign currencies in 2022. Specialty Industrial MKS strategy in specialty industrial is to leverage our domain expertise and proprietary technologies across a broad array of applications in industrial technologies, life and health sciences, and research and defense markets. Industrial Technologies Industrial technologies encompasses a wide range of diverse applications, including chemistries for functional coatings, surface finishing and wear resistance in the automobile industry, vacuum solutions for synthetic diamond manufacturing and photonics for solar manufacturing. Other applications include, but are not limited to, vacuum and photonics solutions for light emitting diode and laser diode manufacturing. Life and Health Sciences Our products for life and health sciences are used in a diverse array of applications, including bioimaging, medical instrument sterilization, medical device manufacturing, analytical, diagnostic and surgical instrumentation, consumable medical supply manufacturing and pharmaceutical production. Research and Defense Our products for research and defense are sold to government, university and industrial laboratories for applications involving research and development in materials science, physical chemistry, photonics, optics and electronics materials. Our products are also sold for monitoring and defense applications, including surveillance, imaging and infrastructure protection. Approximately 27% and 26% of our net revenues for 2022 and 2021, respectively, were from customers in our specialty industrial market. Net revenues from customers in our specialty industrial market increased by $184 million, or 24%, in 2022, compared to 2021. This increase was driven primarily by the Atotech Acquisition with MSD net revenues of $183 million in 2022. Though demand across our specialty industrial market remained relatively stable, our general metal finishing business, which is part of MSD, continues to be impacted by supply chain constraints in the automotive market. Foreign exchange rates had a negative effect of approximately $31 million on net revenues in our specialty industrial market, as the U.S. dollar strengthened against most foreign currencies in 2022. International Markets A significant portion of our net revenues is from sales to customers in international markets. International net revenues accounted for approximately 58% and 57% of our total net revenues in 2022 and 2021, respectively. A significant portion of our international net revenues was from customers in China, Germany and South Korea. We expect that international revenues will continue to account for a significant percentage of total net revenues for the foreseeable future as a result of the Atotech Acquisition. Long-lived assets located outside of the United States accounted for approximately 57% and 28% of our total long-lived assets at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The increase as of December 31, 2022, compared to December 31, 2021, primarily related to the Atotech Acquisition. Long-lived assets include, property, plant and equipment, net, right-of-use assets, and certain other assets and exclude goodwill, intangible assets and long-term tax-related accounts. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates MD&A discusses our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ( U.S. GAAP ). The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition, inventory, warranty costs, pension plan valuations, stock-based compensation expense, intangible assets, goodwill and other long-lived assets and income taxes. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of 44 assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect the most significant judgments, assumptions and estimates we use in preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements: Revenue Recognition . We account for revenue using Accounting Standards Codification 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers ( ASC Topic 606 ). We apply ASC Topic 606 using the following steps: Identify the contract with a customer Identify the performance obligations in the contract Determine the transaction price Allocate the transaction price to performance obligations in the contract Recognize revenue when or as we satisfy a performance obligation Revenue is recognized when or as obligations under the terms of a contract with our customer has been satisfied and control has transferred to the customer. The majority of our performance obligations, and associated revenue, are transferred to customers at a point in time, generally upon shipment of a product to the customer or receipt of the product by the customer and without significant judgments. We recognize revenue over time for contracts relating to the manufacturing, modifications and retrofits of our plating equipment, as the equipment is built to customer specification, and we have an enforceable right to payment for the performance completed to date. For these sales, we use the cost-to-cost input method to measure progress. In cases, where cost-to-cost is not proportionate to our progress in satisfying the performance obligation because of uninstalled materials, we adjust the measure of progress and recognize revenue to the extent of cost incurred to satisfy the performance obligation under the contract. Revenue from customized products with no alternative future use to us, and that have an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, are also recorded over time. We consider this to be a faithful depiction of the transfer to the customer of revenue over time as the work is performed or service is delivered. Adjustments for custom products were not material for 2022 or 2021. Installation services, other than those related to our plating equipment, are not significant, are usually completed in a short period of time and, therefore, are recorded at a point in time when the installation services are completed, rather than over time, as they are not material. Extended warranty, service contracts, and repair services, which are transferred to the customer over time, are recorded as revenue as the services are performed. For repair services, we make an accrual at each quarter end based upon historical repair times within our product groups to record revenue based upon the estimated number of days completed to date, which is consistent with ratable recognition. Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration we expect to receive in exchange for transferring goods or providing services. Performance obligations promised in a contract are identified based on the products or services that will be transferred to the customer that are both capable of being distinct, whereby the customer can benefit from the product or service either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available from third parties or from us, and are distinct in the context of the contract, whereby the transfer of the product or service is separately identifiable from other promises in the contract. Sales, value add, and other taxes we collect concurrent with revenue-producing activities are excluded from revenue. Our normal payment terms are 30 to 60 days but vary by the type and location of our customers and the products or services offered. The time between invoicing and when payment is due is not significant. For certain products and services and customer types, we require payment before the products or services are delivered to, or performed for, the customer. None of our contracts in each of the periods presented contained a significant financing component. We periodically enter into contracts with our customers in which a customer may purchase a combination of goods and or services, such as products with installation services or extended warranties. These contracts include multiple deliverables that we evaluate to determine if the deliverables are separate performance obligations. Once we determine the performance obligations, we then determine the transaction price, which includes estimating the amount of variable consideration to be included in the transaction price, if any. To the extent the transaction price includes variable consideration, we estimate the amount of variable consideration that should be included in the transaction price utilizing either the expected value method or the most likely amount method, depending on the method we expect to better predict the amount of consideration to which we will be entitled. There are no constraints on the variable consideration recorded. We then allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation in the contract based on a relative stand-alone selling price charged separately to customers or using an expected cost-plus margin method. The corresponding revenues are recognized when or as the related performance obligations are satisfied, which are noted above. The impact of variable consideration was immaterial in each of the periods presented. We sell separately priced service contracts and extended warranty contracts related to certain of our products, in particular related to our plating and laser-based products. These separately priced contracts generally range from 12 to 60 months. We 45 recognize revenue over the term of the contract in proportion to the costs expected to be incurred in satisfying the obligations under the contract. We monitor and track the amount of product returns, provide for sales return allowances and reduce revenue at the time of shipment for the estimated amount of such future returns, based on historical experience. While product returns have historically been within our expectations and established provisions, there is no assurance that we will continue to experience the same return rates that we have in the past. Any significant increase in product return rates could have a material adverse impact on our operating results for the period in which such returns materialize. While we maintain a credit approval process, significant judgments are made by management in connection with assessing our customers' ability to pay at the time of shipment. Despite this assessment, from time to time, our customers are unable to meet their payment obligations. We continuously monitor our customers' creditworthiness and use our judgment in establishing a provision for estimated credit losses based upon our historical experience and any specific customer collection issues that we have identified. While such credit losses have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, there is no assurance that we will continue to experience the same credit loss rates that we have in the past. A significant change in the liquidity or financial position of our customers could have a material adverse impact on the collectability of accounts receivable and our future operating results. Bad debt expense was immaterial in 2022 and 2021. Inventory . We value our inventory at the lower of cost or net realizable value, cost being determined using a standard costing system that approximates actual costs, based on a first-in, first-out method. We regularly review inventory quantities on hand and record a provision to write-down excess and obsolete inventory to its estimated net realizable value, if less than cost, based primarily on our estimated forecast of product demand. Once our inventory value is written-down and a new cost basis has been established, the inventory value is not increased due to demand increases. Demand for our products can fluctuate significantly. A significant increase in the demand for our products could result in a short-term increase in the cost of inventory purchases as a result of supply shortages or a decrease in the cost of inventory purchases as a result of volume discounts, while a significant decrease in demand could result in an increase in the charges for excess inventory quantities on hand. In addition, our industry is subject to technological change, new product development and product technological obsolescence that could result in an increase in the amount of obsolete inventory quantities on hand. Therefore, any significant unanticipated changes in demand or technological developments could have a significant impact on the value of our inventory and our reported operating results. Excess and obsolete expense was $21 million and $16 million for 2022 and 2021, respectively. Warranty Costs. We provide for the estimated costs to fulfill customer warranty obligations upon the recognition of the related revenue. We provide warranty coverage for our products for periods ranging from 12 to 36 months, with the majority of our products for periods ranging from 12 to 24 months. Short-term accrued warranty obligations, which expire within one year, are included in other current liabilities and long-term accrued warranty obligations are included in other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. We estimate the anticipated costs of repairing our products under such warranties based on the historical costs of the repairs and any known specific product issues. The assumptions we use to estimate warranty accruals are re-evaluated periodically in light of actual experience and, when appropriate, the accruals are adjusted. Our determination of the appropriate level of warranty accrual is based upon estimates. Should product failure rates differ from our estimates, actual costs could vary significantly from our expectations. Defective products will be either repaired or replaced, generally at our option, upon meeting certain criteria. Pension Plans. Several of our non-U.S. subsidiaries have defined benefit pension plans covering employees of those subsidiaries. Some of the plans are unfunded, as permitted under the plans and applicable laws. For financial reporting purposes, we obtained actuarial reports supporting the calculation of net periodic pension costs that used a number of actuarial assumptions, including a discount rate for plan obligations, an assumed rate of return on pension plan assets and an assumed rate of compensation increase for employees covered by the various plans. We reviewed these actuarial assumptions and concluded they were reasonable based upon our judgment, considering known trends and uncertainties. Actual results that differ from these assumptions would impact future expense recognition and the cash funding requirements of our pension plans. Stock-Based Compensation Expense. We record compensation expense for all stock-based compensation awards to employees and directors based upon the estimated fair market value of the underlying instrument. Accordingly, stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date, based upon the fair value of the award. We typically issue restricted stock units ( RSUs ) as stock-based compensation. We also provide certain employees the opportunity to purchase our shares through an Employee Stock Purchase Plan ( ESPP ). For RSUs, the fair value is the closing market price of the stock on the date of grant. We estimate the fair value of shares issued under our ESPP using the Black-Scholes pricing model, which incorporates a number of complex and subjective variables, including expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, expected life, risk free interest rate and expected dividends. Management determined that blended stock-based compensation, a combination of historical and implied volatility, is more reflective of market conditions and a better indicator of expected volatility than historical or implied volatility alone. 46 Certain RSUs involve stock to be issued upon the achievement of performance conditions ( performance shares ) under our stock incentive plan. Such performance shares become available, subject to time-based vesting conditions if, and to the extent that, financial performance criteria for the applicable period are achieved. Accordingly, the number of performance shares earned will vary based on the level of achievement of financial performance objectives for the applicable period. Until such time that our financial performance can ultimately be determined, each quarter we estimate the number of performance shares to be earned based on an evaluation of the probability of achieving the financial performance objectives. Such estimates are revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods when the underlying factors change our evaluation of the probability of achieving the financial performance objectives. Accordingly, share-based compensation expense associated with performance shares may differ significantly from the amount recorded in the current period. The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of share-based compensation awards represents management best estimates, but these estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of management judgment. As a result, if factors change and we use different assumptions, our stock-based compensation expense could be materially different in the future. Intangible Assets, Goodwill and Other Long-Lived Assets . As a result of our acquisitions, we have identified intangible assets and generated significant goodwill. Definite-lived intangible assets are valued based on estimates of future cash flows and amortized over their estimated useful life. Determining fair value requires the exercise of significant judgment, including assumptions about appropriate discount rates as well as forecasted revenue, gross profit and operating expenses. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are subject to annual impairment testing as well as testing upon the occurrence of any event that indicates a potential impairment. Intangible assets and other long-lived assets are also subject to an impairment test if there is an indicator of impairment. If our expectations of future results and cash flows are significantly diminished, intangible assets and goodwill may be impaired and the resulting charge to operations may be material. When we determine that the carrying value of intangibles or other long-lived assets may not be recoverable based upon the existence of one or more indicators of impairment, we use the projected undiscounted cash flow method to determine whether an impairment exists, and then measure the impairment using discounted cash flows. To measure impairment for goodwill, we compare the fair value of our reporting units by measuring discounted cash flows to the book value of the reporting units. Goodwill would be impaired if the resulting implied fair value was less than the recorded book value of the goodwill. The estimation of useful lives and expected cash flows require us to make significant judgments regarding future periods that are subject to some factors outside of our control. Changes in these estimates can result in significant revisions to the carrying value of these assets and may result in material charges to the results of operations. We have elected to perform our annual goodwill impairment test as of October 31 of each year, or more often if events or circumstances indicate that there may be impairment. Goodwill is the amount by which the cost of acquired net assets exceeded the fair value of those net assets on the date of acquisition. We allocate goodwill to reporting units at the time of acquisition or when there is a change in the reporting structure and base that allocation on which reporting units will benefit from the acquired assets and liabilities. Reporting units are defined as operating segments or one level below an operating segment, referred to as a component. The estimated fair value of our reporting units was based on discounted cash flow models derived from internal earnings and internal and external market forecasts. Determining fair value requires the exercise of significant judgment, including assumptions about appropriate discount and perpetual growth rates, as well as forecasted revenue growth rates and gross profit and operating expenses. Discount rates are based on a weighted average cost of capital ( WACC ), which represents the average rate a business must pay its providers of debt and equity. The WACC used to test goodwill is derived from a group of comparable companies. Assumptions in estimating future cash flows are subject to a high degree of judgment and complexity. We make every effort to forecast these future cash flows as accurately as possible with the information available at the time the forecast is developed. During the quarter ended June 30, 2022, following softening industry demand for flexible PCB via drilling equipment and declines in projected operating results for the equipment solutions business ( ESB ) reporting unit, we evaluated the carrying values of goodwill, purchased intangible assets and other long-lived assets assigned to ESB and determined the carrying values were recoverable. We performed our analysis using the income approach and key underlying assumptions included forecasted revenue, gross profit and operating expenses as well as discount rate. Fair value estimates are based on complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties and rely heavily on estimates and assumptions that we have been deemed reasonable. There are inherent uncertainties and management judgment required in these determinations. In our quantitative assessment of ESB, we estimated the fair value exceeded carrying value by 10%. There were no other triggering events that required an impairment assessment in 2022. In performing our annual goodwill impairment test, we are permitted to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of our reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill. In performing the qualitative assessment, we consider certain events and circumstances specific to the reporting unit and to the entity as a whole, such as macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, overall financial performance and cost factors when evaluating whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. We are also 47 permitted to bypass the qualitative assessment and proceed directly to the quantitative test. If we choose to undertake the qualitative assessment and we conclude that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, we would then proceed to the quantitative impairment test. In the quantitative assessment, we compare the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying amount, which includes goodwill. If the fair value exceeds the carrying value, no impairment loss exists. If the fair value is less than the carrying amount, a goodwill impairment loss is measured and recorded. As of October 31, 2022, we performed our annual impairment assessment of goodwill using a qualitative assessment for all of our reporting units. We determined that it was more likely than not that the fair values were more than the carrying values for each of the reporting units. We will continue to monitor and evaluate the carrying value of goodwill. If market and economic conditions or business performance deteriorate, this could increase the likelihood of us recording an impairment charge. Income Taxes. We evaluate the realizability of our net deferred tax assets and assess the need for a valuation allowance on a quarterly basis. The future benefit to be derived from our deferred tax assets is dependent upon our ability to generate sufficient future taxable income in each jurisdiction of the right type to realize the assets. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our net deferred tax assets to the amount that is expected to be realized. To the extent we establish a valuation allowance an expense is recorded within the provision for income taxes line in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income. Accounting for income taxes requires a two-step approach to recognize and measure uncertain tax positions. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if, based on the technical merits, it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon audit, including resolutions of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We re-evaluate these uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on factors including, but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, effectively settled issues under audit and new audit activity. Any change in these factors could result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision. Derivatives. As a result of our global operating activities and variable interest rate borrowings, we are exposed to market risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, which may adversely affect our operating results and financial position. We enter into derivative instruments for risk management purposes only, including derivatives designated as hedging instruments and those utilized as economic hedges. We do not enter into derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes. We have used derivative instruments, such as foreign exchange forward contracts and options, to manage certain foreign currency exposure, and interest rate swaps and interest rate caps to manage interest rate exposure. Changes in fair value of derivative instruments are recognized in the consolidated statement of operations or, if hedge accounting is applied, in other comprehensive income for the effective portion of the changes in fair value. The cash flows resulting from foreign exchange forward contracts are classified in the consolidated statements of cash flows as part of cash flows from operating activities. All derivatives are stated at fair value in the balance sheet. Accounting principles for qualifying hedges require detailed documentation that describes the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, including, but not limited to, the risk management objectives and hedging strategy and the methods to assess the effectiveness of the hedging relationship. We assess the hedging relationships, both at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, using either the critical terms matching approach or a regression analysis approach to determine whether the designated hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting changes in the value of the hedged item. By nature, all financial instruments involve market and credit risks. We enter into derivative instruments with major investment grade financial institutions, for which no collateral is required. We have policies to monitor the credit risk of these counterparties. While there can be no assurance, we do not anticipate any material non-performance by any of these counterparties. 48 Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the percentage of total net revenues of certain line items included in our consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income data: Years Ended December 31, 2022 2021 Net revenues: Products 87.9 % 87.4 % Services 12.1 12.6 Total net revenues 100.0 100.0 Cost of revenues: Products 50.0 46.5 Services 6.4 6.7 Total cost of revenues (exclusive of amortization shown separately below) 56.4 53.2 Gross profit 43.6 46.8 Research and development 6.8 6.8 Selling, general and administrative 13.7 13.1 Acquisition and integration costs 1.5 1.0 Restructuring and other 0.3 0.4 Amortization of intangible assets 4.1 1.9 Gain on sale of long-lived assets (0.2 ) Income from operations 17.4 23.7 Interest income (0.1 ) Interest expense 5.0 0.8 Other expense, net 0.3 0.3 Income before income taxes 12.1 22.5 Provision for income taxes 2.7 3.9 Net income 9.4 % 18.7 % Year Ended December 31, 2022 compared to 2021 Net Revenues Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2022 2021 Products $ 3,119 $ 2,579 Services 428 371 Total net revenues $ 3,547 $ 2,950 Net product revenues increased $540 million in 2022, compared to 2021, primarily due to the Atotech Acquisition with MSD net product revenues of $486 million in 2022. Additional increases were primarily due to volume increases in sales to our semiconductor market in VSD and PSD, partially offset by decreases in sales to our electronics and packaging market, primarily in PSD due to decreased industry demand for flexible PCB via drilling systems and other products for the consumer electronics markets. Net service revenues consisted mainly of fees for services related to the maintenance and repair of our products, sales of spare parts, and installation and training. Net service revenues increased $57 million in 2022, compared to 2021, primarily due to the Atotech Acquisition with MSD net service revenues of $31 million in 2022. Additional increases were primarily due to increases in VSD and PSD from increases in sales to our semiconductor and electronics and packaging markets. Total international net revenues, including product and service, were $2.1 billion in 2022, compared to $1.7 billion in 2021. The increase in 2022 was primarily driven by the Atotech Acquisition. The increase in international net revenues was primarily from increases in sales to customers in China, Germany, Israel and Japan. 49 The following table sets forth our net revenues by reportable segment: Net Revenues Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2022 2021 Vacuum Solutions Division $ 1,966 $ 1,862 Photonics Solutions Division 1,064 1,088 Materials Solutions Division 517 Total net revenues $ 3,547 $ 2,950 Net revenues for our VSD segment increased $104 million in 2022, compared to 2021, primarily due to volume increases in the semiconductor market. Net revenues for our PSD segment decreased $24 million in 2022, compared to 2021, primarily due to decreases in our electronics and packaging market resulting from decreased industry demand for flexible PCB via drilling systems and other products for the consumer electronics market, offset by volume increases in the semiconductor market. Net revenues for our MSD segment in 2022 consist of revenues from the Atotech Acquisition. The following table sets forth gross profit as a percentage of net revenues by product and service: Gross Profit Years Ended December 31, % Points (As a percentage of net revenues) 2022 2021 Change Products 43.1 % 46.8 % (3.7 )% Services 47.4 46.5 0.9 Total gross profit percentage 43.6 % 46.8 % (3.2 )% Gross profit as a percentage of net product revenues decreased by 3.7 percentage points in 2022, compared to 2021, primarily due to higher materials costs reflective of global component shortages, higher logistics costs and unfavorable overhead absorption arising from the effect of component shortages on manufacturing efficiencies. Additionally, as a result of the Atotech Acquisition, we incurred a $52 million step-up to fair value adjustment on acquired inventory, which was fully amortized during the year ended December 31, 2022 and negatively impacted our gross margin. These decreases were partially offset by higher revenue volumes and favorable product mix. Gross profit as a percentage of net service revenues increased by 0.9 percentage points in 2022, compared to 2021, which was reflective of our efforts to transition customers to higher-value offerings, such as service contracts, and the mix of products serviced. The increase was partially offset by unfavorable overhead efficiency on service-related parts. The following table sets forth gross profit as a percentage of net revenues by reportable segment: Gross Profit Years Ended December 31, % Points (As a percentage of net revenues) 2022 2021 Change Vacuum Solutions Division 43.5 % 46.6 % (3.1 )% Photonics Solutions Division 46.9 47.1 (0.2 ) Materials Solutions Division 37.1 37.1 Total gross profit percentage 43.6 % 46.8 % (3.2 )% Gross profit as a percentage of net revenues for our VSD segment decreased primarily due to higher material costs reflective of global component shortages, higher logistics costs and unfavorable absorption. These decreases were partially offset by favorable product mix and higher revenue volumes. Gross profit as a percentage of net revenues for our PSD segment decreased primarily due to higher material costs reflective of global component shortages, higher logistics costs and unfavorable absorption. These decreases were partially offset by favorable product mix. Gross profit as a percentage of net revenues for our MSD segment was 37.1% for the year ended December 31, 2022 and included a charge of $52 million of inventory step-up amortization related to the Atotech Acquisition. 50 Research and Development Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2022 2021 Research and development $ 241 $ 200 Research and development expenses increased $41 million in 2022, compared to 2021, primarily due to an increase of $31 million resulting from the Atotech Acquisition. The remaining increase of $10 million was primarily due to increases of $6 million in compensation-related costs, $2 million in project materials and $2 million in occupancy costs. Our research and development efforts are primarily focused on developing and improving our instruments, components, chemistry, subsystems, systems and process control solutions to improve process performance and productivity. We have thousands of products, and our research and development efforts primarily consist of a large number of projects related to these products, none of which is individually material to us. Projects typically have a duration of 3 to 36 months but may be extended for development of new products. We continue to make product advancements to meet our customers' evolving needs. We have developed, and continue to develop, new products to address industry trends, such as the shrinking of integrated circuit critical dimensions and technology inflections, and, in the flat panel display and solar markets, the transition to larger substrate sizes, which require more advanced processing and process control technology, the continuing drive toward more complex and accurate components and devices within the handset and tablet market, the transition to 5G for both devices and infrastructure, the growth in units and via counts in the high density interconnect PCB drilling market, and the industry transition to electric cars in the automotive market. In addition, we have developed, and continue to develop, products that support the migration to new classes of materials, ultra-thin layers, and 3D structures that are used in small geometry manufacturing. In our chemistry and equipment plating businesses, a majority of our research and development investment supports existing customers' product improvement needs and their short-term research and development goals, which enables us to pioneer new high-value solutions while limiting commercial risk. Research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries and related expenses for personnel engaged in research and development, fees paid to consultants, material costs for prototypes and other expenses related to the design, development, testing and enhancement of our products. We believe that the continued investment in research and development and ongoing development of new products are essential to the expansion of our markets. We expect to continue to make significant investment in research and development activities. We are subject to risks from products not being developed in a timely manner, as well as from rapidly changing customer requirements and competitive threats from other companies and technologies. Our success primarily depends on our products being designed into new generations of equipment for the semiconductor, electronics and packaging, and specialty industrial markets. We develop products that are technologically advanced so that they are positioned to be chosen for use in each successive generation of semiconductor capital equipment and advanced markets applications. If our products are not chosen to be designed into our customers products, our net revenues may be reduced during the lifespan of those products. Selling, General and Administrative Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2022 2021 Selling, general and administrative $ 488 $ 385 Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $103 million during 2022, compared to 2021, primarily due to an increase of $101 million resulting from the Atotech Acquisition. Excluding the Atotech Acquisition, VSD and PSD selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $2 million primarily due to $2 million in information technology costs and $2 million in travel related expenses offset by a decrease of $2 million in compensation related costs. Acquisition and Integration Costs Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2022 2021 Acquisition and integration costs $ 52 $ 30 Acquisition and integration costs incurred during 2022 were primarily related to consulting and professional fees related to the Atotech Acquisition. Acquisition and integration costs incurred during 2021 primarily related to consulting and professional fees in connection with our acquisition of Photon Control, our then-pending Atotech Acquisition and a proposed acquisition that was not consummated. 51 Restructuring and Other Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2022 2021 Restructuring and other $ 10 $ 11 Restructuring and other costs incurred in 2022 primarily related to executive payments related to the Atotech Acquisition, severance costs due to a global cost-saving initiative, the closure of two facilities in Europe and movement of certain products to low-cost regions. Restructuring and other costs incurred in 2021 primarily related to duplicate facility costs attributed to entering into new facility leases, severance costs due to a global cost-saving initiative, costs related to the closure of two facilities in Europe and the movement of certain products to low-cost regions. Amortization of Intangible Assets Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2022 2021 Amortization of intangible assets $ 146 $ 55 Amortization of intangible assets increased $91 million in 2022, compared to 2021, due primarily to amortization of intangible assets from the Atotech Acquisition. Gain on Sale of Long-Lived Assets Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2022 2021 Gain on sale of long-lived assets $ (7 ) $ We recorded a gain from the sale of a minority interest investment in a private company in 2022. Interest Expense, Net Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2022 2021 Interest expense, net $ 173 $ 25 Interest expense, net, increased by $148 million in 2022, compared to 2021, primarily due to borrowings on the New Term Loan Facility we entered into in connection with the Atotech Acquisition. Other Expense, Net Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2022 2021 Other expense, net $ 11 $ 9 Other expense, net, for 2022 and 2021 primarily related to changes in foreign exchange rates. Provision for Income Taxes Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2022 2021 Provision for income taxes $ 100 $ 114 Our effective tax rates for 2022 and 2021 were 23.1% and 17.1%, respectively. Our effective tax rate for 2022 was higher than the U.S. statutory tax rate, mainly due to additional withholding taxes related to the change of indefinite reinvestment assertion, the U.S. global intangible low-taxed income ( GILTI ) inclusion, offset by the U.S. deduction for foreign derived intangible income ( FDII ) and the geographic mix of income earned by our international subsidiaries being taxed at rates lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate. Our effective tax rate for 2021 was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate, mainly due to the geographic mix of income earned by our international subsidiaries being taxed at rates lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate, the U.S. deduction for FDII and research credits offset by the tax effects of non-deductible executive compensation and the GILTI inclusion. 52 As of December 31, 2022, total gross unrecognized tax benefits, which excludes interest and penalties, was $83 million. As of December 31, 2021, total gross unrecognized tax benefits, which excludes interest and penalties, was $43 million. The net increase was primarily attributable to the addition of historical gross unrecognized tax benefits as a result of the Atotech Acquisition. We accrue interest and, if applicable, penalties for any uncertain tax positions. Interest and penalties are classified as a component of income tax expense. As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, we accrued interest on unrecognized tax benefits of approximately $6 million and $1 million, respectively. Over the next 12 months, it is reasonably possible that we may recognize approximately $3 million of previously net unrecognized tax benefits, excluding interest and penalties, related to various U.S. federal, state and foreign tax positions, primarily due to the expiration of statutes of limitations. We are subject to examination by U.S. federal, state and foreign tax authorities. The U.S. federal statute of limitations remains open for tax years 2018 through the present. The statute of limitations for our tax filings in other jurisdictions varies between fiscal years 2015 through the present. We also have certain federal credit carryforwards and state tax loss and credit carryforwards that are open to examination for tax years 2002 through the present. In addition, the 2017 transition tax remains open for examination. In 2022, we recorded a net benefit to income tax expense of $4 million, due to the closure of a tax audit and expiration of certain statutes of limitations. In 2021, we recorded a net benefit to income tax expense of $4 million, excluding interest and penalties, due to reserve releases related to the expiration of certain statutes of limitations for previously open tax years. Our future effective tax rate depends on various factors, including the impact of tax legislation, further interpretations and guidance from U.S. federal and state governments on the impact of proposed regulations issued by the IRS, as well as the geographic composition of our pre-tax income and changes in income tax reserves for unrecognized tax benefits. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development ( OECD ) Pillar Two Model Rules (Pillar Two) for a global 15% minimum tax are in the process of being adopted by a number of jurisdictions in which we operate. Pillar Two may materially increase our future effective tax rate. We cannot be certain regarding the amount of the effective tax rate increase until all jurisdictions in which we operate adopt legislation and implement a version of Pillar Two. We monitor these factors and timely adjust our estimates of the effective tax rate accordingly. We expect the geographic mix of pre-tax income will continue to have a favorable impact on our effective tax rate. However, the geographic mix of pre-tax income can change based on multiple factors including the Atotech Acquisition, resulting in changes to the effective tax rate in future periods. While we believe we have adequately provided for all tax positions, amounts asserted by taxing authorities could materially differ from our accrued positions as a result of uncertain and complex application of tax law and regulations. Additionally, the recognition and measurement of certain tax benefits include estimates and judgment by management. Accordingly, we could record additional provisions or benefits for U.S. federal, state, and foreign tax matters in future periods as new information becomes available. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash, cash equivalents and short-term marketable investments at December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021 totaled $910 million and $1.0 billion, respectively. The decrease primarily related to the use of cash to fund the payment of a portion of the purchase price for the Atotech Acquisition. The primary driver in our current and anticipated future cash flows is, and we expect will continue to be, cash generated from operations, consisting primarily of our net income, excluding non-cash charges and changes in operating assets and liabilities. Our total cash and cash equivalents and short-term marketable investments at December 31, 2022 consisted of $173 million held in the United States and $737 million held by our foreign subsidiaries. We believe that our current cash and investments position and available borrowing capacity, together with the cash anticipated to be generated from our operations, will be sufficient to satisfy our estimated working capital, planned capital expenditure requirements, payments of debt, and any future cash dividends declared by our Board of Directors or share repurchases through at least the next 12 months and the foreseeable future. In periods when our sales are growing, higher sales to customers will result in increased trade receivables, and inventories will generally increase as we build products for future sales. This may result in lower cash generated from operations. Conversely, in periods when our sales are declining, our trade accounts receivable and inventory balances will generally decrease, resulting in increased cash from operations. Net cash provided by operating activities was $529 million for 2022 and resulted from net income of $333 million, which included non-cash charges of $353 million, offset by a net increase in working capital of $157 million. The net increase in working capital was primarily due to increases in inventory of $236 million, as a result of increased business levels, and a decrease of $31 million in accrued compensation, resulting from the payment of variable compensation. These increases in working capital were partially offset by a decrease in other current and non-current assets of $28 million, an increase in accounts payable of $61 million and an increase in income taxes payable of $19 million. 53 Net cash provided by operating activities was $640 million for 2021 and resulted from net income of $551 million, which included non-cash net charges of $161 million, offset by an increase in working capital of $72 million. The increase in working capital consisted of an increase in inventories of $92 million and an increase in trade accounts receivable of $53 million, both of which were the result of increased business levels, offset by an increase in accounts payable of $56 million from increased business levels and an increase in current and non-current accrued compensation of $17 million. Net cash used in investing activities was $4.6 billion for 2022, primarily due to $4.5 billion used for the Atotech Acquisition, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired, and $164 million in capital expenditures, partially offset by $76 million in net maturities of investments. Net cash used in investing activities was $205 million for 2021, reflecting the purchase of Photon Control for $268 million, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired, and $87 million in capital expenditures, primarily for production-related equipment, offset by the net sales of short-term investments of $150 million. Net cash provided by financing activities was $4.0 billion for 2022, primarily due to $5.0 billion in net proceeds from our New Term Loan Facility offset by $962 million of payments on borrowings, primarily related to payment of the Prior Term Loan Facility (as defined below), a $100 million optional pre-payment and $22 million regularly scheduled payment on the New Term Loan Facility and $52 million in dividend payments. Net cash used in financing activities was $65 million for 2021, primarily due to dividend payments of $47 million and net payments of short and long-term borrowings of $15 million. For the year ended December 31, 2022, we paid cash dividends of $52 million in the aggregate or $0.88 per share. For the year ended December 31, 2021, we paid cash dividends of $47 million in the aggregate or $0.86 per share. Future dividend declarations, if any, as well as the record and payment dates for such dividends, are subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors. Holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends when and if they are declared by our Board of Directors. Under the terms of our New Term Loan Facility and New Revolving Facility, each as defined and described further below, we may be restricted from paying dividends under certain circumstances. On February 6, 2023, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.22 per share that was paid on March 10, 2023 to shareholders of record as of February 27, 2023. Atotech Acquisition On August 17, 2022, we completed the Atotech Acquisition. The total net purchase price, including cash consideration, net of cash acquired, value of MKS shares issued, repayment of Atotech debt and settlement of share-based awards totaled $5.7 billion. We funded the payment of the aggregate cash consideration with a combination of cash on hand and the proceeds from the New Term Loan Facility, as defined below. As a result of the Atotech Acquisition, we issued an aggregate of 10.7 million shares of our common stock to the former Atotech shareholders. Additional information regarding the funding of the Atotech Acquisition, the entry into the New Term Loan Facility, and the New Revolving Facility and the replacement of the Prior Term Loan Facility and the Prior ABL Credit Facility, is discussed under Recent Events - Atotech Acquisition above and in Note 14 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In connection with the completion of the Atotech Acquisition, we entered into a credit agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent and collateral agent, Barclays Bank PLC, and the lenders from time to time party thereto (the New Credit Agreement ). The New Credit Agreement provides for (i) a senior secured term loan facility (the New Term Loan Facility ) comprised of three tranches: a USD 1 billion loan (the USD Tranche A ), a USD 3.6 billion loan (the USD Tranche B ) and a EUR 600 million loan (the Euro Tranche B ), each of which were borrowed in full on the Effective Date, and (ii) a senior secured revolving credit facility of USD 500 million (the New Revolving Facility and, together with the New Term Loan Facility, the New Credit Facilities ), with the commitments under each of the foregoing facilities subject to increase from time to time subject to certain conditions. Borrowings under the New Credit Facilities bear interest at a rate per annum equal to, at our option, any of the following, plus, in each case, an applicable margin: (a) with respect to the USD Tranche A, the USD Tranche B and the New Revolving Facility, (x) a base rate determined by reference to the highest of (1) the federal funds effective rate plus 0.50%, (2) the prime rate quoted in The Wall Street Journal, or (3) a forward-looking term rate based on the secured overnight financing rate ( Term SOFR ) (plus an applicable credit spread adjustment) for an interest period of one month, plus 1.00%; and (y) a Term SOFR rate (plus an applicable credit spread adjustment) for the interest period relevant to such borrowing, subject to a rate floor of (I) with respect to the USD Tranche B, 0.50% and (II) with respect to the USD Tranche A and the New Revolving Facility, 0.0%; and (b) with respect to the Euro Tranche B, a EURIBOR rate determined by reference to the costs of funds for Euro deposits for the interest period relevant to such borrowing adjusted for certain additional costs, subject to a EURIBOR rate floor of 0.0%. The USD Tranche A was issued with original issue discount of 0.25% of the principal amount thereof. The USD Tranche B and the Euro Tranche B were issued with original issue discount of 2.00% of the principal amount thereof. The applicable margin for 54 borrowings under the USD Tranche A is 1.50% with respect to base rate borrowings and 2.50% with respect to Term SOFR borrowings. The applicable margin for borrowings under the USD Tranche B is 1.75% with respect to base rate borrowings and 2.75% with respect to Term SOFR borrowings. The applicable margin for borrowings under the Euro Tranche B is 3.00%. The initial applicable margin for borrowings under the New Revolving Facility is 1.50% with respect to base rate borrowings and 2.50% with respect to Term SOFR borrowings. Commencing with the delivery of financial statements with respect to the first quarter ending after the closing of the New Credit Agreement, the applicable margin for borrowings under the New Revolving Facility is subject to adjustment each fiscal quarter, based on our first lien net leverage ratio as of the end of the preceding quarter. In addition to paying interest on outstanding principal under the New Credit Facilities, we are required to pay a commitment fee in respect of the unutilized commitments under the New Revolving Facility. The initial commitment fee is 0.375% per annum. Commencing with the delivery of financial statements with respect to the first quarter ending after the closing of the New Credit Agreement, the commitment fee is subject to downward adjustment based on our first lien net leverage ratio as of the end of the preceding quarter. We must also pay customary letter of credit fees and agency fees. We incurred $242 million of deferred financing fees and original issue discount fees related to the term loans under the New Term Loan Facility, which are included in long-term debt in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized to interest expense over the estimated life of the term loans using the effective interest method. As of December 31, 2022, the remaining balance of deferred financing fees and original issue discount of the New Term Loan Facility was $195 million. A portion of the deferred financing fees and original issue discount has been accelerated in connection with the debt prepayment and extinguishment of the Prior Term Loan Facility (as defined below). Under the New Credit Agreement, we are required to prepay outstanding term loans, subject to certain exceptions, with portions of our annual excess cash flow as well as with the net cash proceeds of certain of our asset sales, certain casualty and condemnation events and the incurrences or issuances of certain debt. If at any time the aggregate amount of outstanding loans, unreimbursed letter of credit drawings and undrawn letters of credit under the New Revolving Facility exceeds the aggregate commitments under the New Revolving Facility, we are required to repay outstanding loans and/or cash collateralize letters of credit, with no reduction of the commitment amount. We may voluntarily prepay outstanding loans under the New Credit Facilities from time to time, subject to certain conditions, without premium or penalty other than customary breakage costs with respect to Term SOFR or EURIBOR loans; provided, however, that subject to certain exceptions, if on or prior to the date that is twelve months after the closing date of the New Term Loan Facility, we prepay any loans under the USD Tranche B or the Euro Tranche B in connection with a repricing transaction, we must pay a prepayment premium of 1.00% of the aggregate principal amount of the loans so prepaid. Additionally, we may voluntarily reduce the unutilized portion of the commitment amount under the New Revolving Facility. We are required to make scheduled quarterly payments each equal to 1.25% of the original principal amount of the USD Tranche A (increasing to 1.875% in years 3 and 4 and 2.50% in year 5) and 0.25% of the original principal amount of the USD Tranche B and the Euro Tranche B, beginning with the fiscal quarter ending December 31, 2022, with the balance due thereunder on the fifth anniversary of the closing date in the case of the USD Tranche A and the seventh anniversary of the closing date in the case of the USD Tranche B and the Euro Tranche B. There is no scheduled amortization under the New Revolving Facility. Any principal amount outstanding under the New Revolving Facility is due and payable in full on the fifth anniversary of the closing date. We incurred $7 million of costs in connection with the New Revolving Facility, which were capitalized and included in other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet and are being amortized to interest expense over the estimated life of four years. As a result of our Prior ABL Credit Facility (as defined below) being terminated concurrently with our entry into the New Revolving Facility, we wrote off an immaterial amount of previously capitalized debt issuance costs. All obligations under the New Credit Facilities are guaranteed by certain of our wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries and are required to be guaranteed by certain of our future wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries and are secured by substantially all of our assets and the assets of such subsidiaries, subject to certain exceptions and exclusions. Under the New Credit Agreement, we have the ability to incur additional incremental debt facilities in an amount up to (x) the greater of (1) $1.01 billion and (2) 75% of consolidated EBITDA, plus (y) an amount equal to the sum of all voluntary prepayments of term loans under the New Term Loan Facility, plus (z) an additional unlimited amount subject to pro forma compliance with certain leverage ratio tests (based on the security and priority of such incremental debt). Under the USD Tranche A and the New Revolving Facility, so long as any USD Tranche A loans (or commitments in respect thereof) are outstanding as of the end of any fiscal quarter, we may not allow our total net leverage ratio as of the end of such fiscal quarter to be greater than 5.50 to 1.00, with an annual step-down of 0.25:1.00 and subject to a step-up of 0.50:1.00 for the four full fiscal quarter period following any material acquisition, not to exceed 5.50 to 1.00. 55 In addition, in the event there are no loans outstanding under the USD Tranche A, as of the end of any fiscal quarter of ours when the aggregate amount of loans outstanding under the New Revolving Facility (net of (a) all letters of credit (whether cash collateralized or not) and (b) unrestricted cash of ours and our restricted subsidiaries) exceeds 35% of the aggregate amount of all commitments under the New Revolving Facility in; effect as of such date, we may not allow our first lien net leverage ratio as of the end of each such fiscal quarter to be greater than 6.00 to 1.00. The USD Tranche B and the Euro Tranche B are not subject to financial maintenance covenants. The New Credit Agreement contains a number of negative covenants that, among other things and subject to certain exceptions, restrict our ability and each of our subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness; pay dividends on our capital stock or redeem, repurchase or retire our capital stock or our subordinated indebtedness; make investments, loans and acquisitions; create restrictions on the payment of dividends or other amounts to us from our restricted subsidiaries or restrictions on the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to incur liens; engage in transactions with our affiliates; sell assets, including capital stock of our subsidiaries; materially alter the business it conducts; consolidate or merge; incur liens; and engage in sale-leaseback transactions. The New Credit Agreement also contains customary representations and warranties, affirmative covenants and provisions relating to events of default. If an event of default occurs, the lenders under the New Credit Facilities will be entitled to take various actions, including the acceleration of amounts due under the New Credit Facilities and all actions permitted to be taken by a secured creditor. At December 31, 2022, we were in compliance with all covenants under the New Credit Agreement. The proceeds of the New Term Loan Facility were used on the Effective Date, among other things, to fund a portion of the consideration payable in connection with the Atotech Acquisition and to refinance the Prior Term Loan Facility, the Prior ABL Credit Facility and certain indebtedness of Atotech. We also paid certain customary fees and expenses of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Barclays Bank PLC, BofA Securities Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc., HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. and Mizuho Bank, Ltd. in their respective capacities as lead arrangers and bookrunners in connection with the New Credit Facilities. On the Effective Date, in connection with the entry into the New Credit Agreement described above, we terminated and prepaid the prior term loan credit facility under that certain Term Loan Credit Agreement, dated as of April 29, 2016, by and among us, Barclays Bank PLC and the other financial institutions from time to time party thereto (as amended, the Prior Term Loan Credit Agreement and the term loan credit facility thereunder, the Prior Term Loan Facility ) and terminated the prior revolving credit facility under that certain ABL Credit Agreement, dated as of February 1, 2019, by and among the us, Barclays Bank PLC and the other financial institutions from time to time party thereto (as amended, the Prior ABL Credit Agreement and the revolving credit facility thereunder, the Prior ABL Credit Facility ). At the time of termination, there were approximately $820 million in borrowings outstanding under the Prior Term Loan Facility that were prepaid and no borrowings outstanding under the Prior ABL Credit Facility. We have determined the termination to be a full extinguishment of debt and have written off to expense the immaterial remaining balance of deferred finance costs and debt issuance costs related to the Prior Term Loan Facility and Prior ABL Credit Facility. As of December 31, 2022, the outstanding principal amount of the New Term Loan Facility was $5.1 billion and the weighted average interest rate was 6.8%. As of December 31, 2022, there were no borrowings under the New Revolving Facility. Lines of Credit and Borrowing Arrangements Certain of our Japanese subsidiaries have lines of credit and a financing facility with various financial institutions, many of which generally expire and are renewed at three-month intervals, with the remaining having no expiration date. The lines of credit and financing facility provided for aggregate borrowings as of December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021 of up to an equivalent of $27 million and $29 million, respectively. There were no borrowings outstanding under these arrangements at December 31, 2022 or December 31, 2021. Derivatives We enter into derivative instruments for risk management purposes only, including derivatives designated as hedging instruments and those utilized as economic hedges. We operate internationally, and in the normal course of business, are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. These fluctuations can increase the costs of financing, investing and operating the business. We have used derivative instruments, such as foreign exchange forward contracts and options, to manage certain foreign currency exposure, and interest rate swaps and caps to manage interest rate exposure. By nature, all financial instruments involve market and credit risks. We enter into derivative instruments with major investment grade financial institutions and no collateral is required. We have policies to monitor the credit risk of these counterparties. While there can be no assurance, we do not anticipate any material non-performance by any of these counterparties. 56 Interest Rate Swap and Interest Rate Cap Agreements We have various interest rate swap agreements, as described further in Note 8 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, that exchange the variable Term SOFR rate to a fixed rate in order to manage the exposure to interest rate fluctuations associated with the variable Term SOFR rate paid on the outstanding balance of the New Term Loan Facility. We acquired USD London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) interest rate cap agreements as a result of the Atotech Acquisition and we are utilizing these agreements to offset the variable Term SOFR rate on our New Term Loan Facility. Our USD LIBOR-based swaps and USD LIBOR-based interest rate caps will convert to Term SOFR after LIBOR's termination in June 2023, according to the terms of each instrument. As of December 31, 2022 2021 Effective Date Maturity Fixed Rate Notional Amount at Effective Date Notional Amount at December 31, 2022 Fair Value Asset (Liability) Fair Value Asset (Liability) April 5, 2019 March 31, 2023 2.309 % $ 300 $ 200 $ 1 $ (5 ) October 26, 2021 February 28, 2025 0.485 % 200 200 16 4 March 31, 2022 February 28, 2025 0.623 % 100 100 22 5 September 30, 2022 September 30, 2026 3.156 % 350 350 8 January 2, 2024 January 31, 2028 2.841 % 250 5 September 30, 2022 September 30, 2027 3.198 % 350 350 8 January 2, 2024 January 31, 2029 2.986 % 250 4 September 30, 2022 September 30, 2026 3.358 % 600 600 10 2,400 1,800 74 4 March 31, 2020 January 31, 2024 1.000 % 350 350 15 March 31, 2020 January 31, 2024 1.000 % 350 350 15 700 700 30 Total $ 3,100 $ 2,500 $ 104 $ 4 The interest rate swaps and caps are recorded at fair value on the balance sheet and changes in the fair value are recognized in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income. To the extent that these arrangements are no longer an effective hedge, any ineffectiveness measured in the hedging relationships is recorded immediately in earnings in the period it occurs. The fair value of the interest rate swaps and caps is classified in other assets or non-current liabilities, accordingly, in the consolidated balance sheet. Foreign Exchange Contracts We hedge a portion of our forecasted foreign currency denominated intercompany sales of inventory, over a maximum period of eighteen months, using foreign exchange forward contracts accounted for as cash-flow hedges related to British, Euro, Japanese, South Korean and Taiwanese currencies. To the extent these derivatives are effective in offsetting the variability of the hedged cash flows, and otherwise meet the hedge accounting criteria, changes in the derivatives fair value are not included in current earnings but are included in accumulated other comprehensive income in stockholders equity. These changes in fair value will subsequently be reclassified into earnings, as applicable, when the forecasted transaction occurs. To the extent that a previously designated hedging transaction is no longer an effective hedge, any ineffectiveness measured in the hedging relationship is recorded immediately in earnings in the period it occurs. The cash flows resulting from foreign exchange forward contracts are classified in the consolidated statements of cash flows as part of cash flows from operating activities. We do not enter into derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes. We also enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge certain balance sheet amounts. To the extent the hedge accounting criteria is not met, the related foreign exchange forward contracts are considered as economic hedges and changes in the fair value of these contracts are recorded immediately in earnings in the period in which they occur. These include hedges that are used to reduce exchange rate risks arising from the change in fair value of certain foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities (i.e., payables, receivables) and other economic hedges where the hedge accounting criteria were not met. We had foreign exchange forward contracts with notional amounts totaling $702 million outstanding at December 31, 2022, of which $485 million was outstanding to exchange euro to U.S. dollars and $75 million was outstanding to exchange South Korean won to U.S. dollars. We had foreign exchange forward contracts with notional amounts totaling $241 million outstanding 57 at December 31, 2021, of which $108 million was outstanding to exchange South Korean won to U.S. dollars and $60 million was outstanding to exchange Japanese yen to U.S. dollars. As of December 31, 2022, the unrealized loss that will be reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income to earnings over the next twelve months is immaterial. Gains and losses on foreign exchange forward contracts that qualify for hedge accounting are classified in cost of products in 2022 and 2021 and totaled a gain of $18 million and a loss of $2 million, respectively. There were no ineffective portions of the derivatives recorded in 2022 and 2021. We hedge certain intercompany accounts receivable and intercompany loans with foreign exchange forward contracts. Typically, as these derivatives hedge existing amounts that are denominated in foreign currencies, the derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting. Realized and unrealized gains and losses on foreign exchange forward contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognized immediately in earnings. The net foreign exchange gains or losses on these derivatives were immaterial in each of 2022 and 2021. Foreign currency gains or losses are classified in other expense, net. The cash flows resulting from foreign exchange forward contracts are classified in our consolidated statements of cash flows as part of cash flows from operating activities. We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. Contractual Obligations As of December 31, 2022, we are a party to purchase commitments for certain inventory components and other equipment and services used in our normal operations totaling approximately $795 million. The majority of these purchase commitments covered by these arrangements are for periods of less than one year. In addition, we have various operating leases for real estate and non-real estate items. The non-real estate leases are mainly comprised of automobiles but also include office equipment and other lower-valued items. We also have a small number of finance leases for real estate. Future payments related to operating and finance leases are as follows: Year Ending December 31, Operating Leases Finance Leases 2023 $ 26 $ 7 2024 23 6 2025 20 6 2026 17 4 2027 15 4 Thereafter 150 21 Total lease payments 251 48 Less: imputed interest 47 11 Total lease liabilities $ 204 $ 37 Contractual maturities of our debt obligations as of December 31, 2022 are as follows: Year Amount 2023 $ 93 2024 93 2025 110 2026 115 2027 695 Thereafter 4,016 We have a number of defined benefit pension plans, which cover some of our employees outside the United States. In addition, we have certain pension assets and liabilities relating to our former employees in the United Kingdom. As of December 31, 2022, our estimated benefit payments over the next 10 years amount to $88 million. The majority of the benefit payments covered by these arrangements occurs after 2027. 58 
