CIK: 1070494
Company Name: ACADIA PHARMACEUTICALS INC
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2024-02-28
Accession Number: 0000950170-24-021473


Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . The following discussion and analysis of our consolidated financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. Past operating results are not necessarily indicative of results that may occur in future periods. This discussion contains forward-looking statements, which involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Such forward-looking statements include statements about the benefits to be derived from NUPLAZID (pimavanserin), DAYBUE (trofinetide) and our drug candidates, the potential market opportunities for NUPLAZID and DAYBUE and our drug candidates, our strategy for the commercialization of NUPLAZID and DAYBUE, our plans for exploring and developing NUPLAZID and DAYBUE for indications other than PDP or Rett syndrome, respectively, and the commercialization of DAYBUE in jurisdictions other than the U.S., our plans and timing with respect to seeking regulatory approvals, the potential commercialization of any of our drug candidates that receive regulatory approval, the progress, timing, results or implications of clinical trials and other development activities involving NUPLAZID, DAYBUE and our drug candidates, our strategy for discovering, developing and, if approved, commercializing drug candidates, our existing and potential future collaborations, our estimates of future payments, revenues and profitability, our estimates regarding our capital requirements, future expenses and need for additional financing, the potential or expected impacts of geopolitical and macroeconomic developments, possible changes in legislation, and other statements that are not historical facts, including statements which may be preceded by the words believes, expects, hopes, may, will, plans, intends, estimates, could, should, would, continues, seeks, aims, projects, predicts, pro forma, anticipates, potential or similar words. In addition, statements that we believe and similar statements reflect our beliefs and opinions on the relevant subject. These statements are based upon information available to us as of the date of this report, and while we believe such information forms a reasonable basis for such statements, such information may be limited or incomplete, and our statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted an exhaustive inquiry into, or review of, all potentially available relevant information. These statements are inherently uncertain. For forward-looking statements, we claim the protection of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Readers of this report are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance. Actual results or events may differ materially from those anticipated in our forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth under the section captioned Risk Factors elsewhere in this report. Information in the following discussion for a yearly period means for the year ended December 31 of the indicated year. Overview Background We are a biopharmaceutical company focused on the development and commercialization of innovative medicines that address unmet medical needs in CNS disorders and rare diseases. We have a portfolio of commercial stage products, in-development product opportunities, and research programs that are designed to address significant unmet needs in CNS disorders and rare diseases. In order to achieve significant long-term growth, we will develop our current portfolio, expand our pipeline of early- and late-stage programs through strategic business development, and invest in targeted internal research efforts. Our commercial portfolio includes two products. In April 2016, the FDA approved NUPLAZID for the treatment of hallucinations and delusions associated with PDP, which is the first and only drug approved in the United States for this condition. In September 2023, we announced that the FDA made two changes to the NUPLAZID label clarifying its use in patients with Parkinson disease-related hallucinations and delusions, with or without dementia, which is consistent with the current indication. In March 2023, the FDA approved DAYBUE for the treatment of Rett syndrome, which is the first and only drug approved for this condition. DAYBUE became available for prescription in the United States in April 2023. NUPLAZID is a selective serotonin inverse agonist/antagonist, preferentially targeting 5-HT 2A receptors with no appreciable affinity for dopaminergic, histaminergic, or muscarinic receptors. Through this novel mechanism, NUPLAZID demonstrated significant efficacy in reducing the hallucinations and delusions associated with PDP without negatively impacting motor function in our Phase 3 pivotal trial. NUPLAZID has the potential to avoid many of the debilitating side effects of existing antipsychotics, none of which are approved by the FDA for the treatment of PDP. We hold worldwide commercialization rights to pimavanserin. 62 In August 2018, we acquired an exclusive North American license to develop and commercialize DAYBUE for Rett syndrome and other indications from Neuren. Rett syndrome is a debilitating neurological disorder that occurs predominantly in females following apparently normal development for the first six months of life. Rett syndrome also occurs in boys, albeit far less frequently. Typically, between six to eighteen months of age, patients experience a period of rapid decline with loss of purposeful hand use and spoken communication and inability to independently conduct activities of daily living. Symptoms also include seizures, hand movements or stereotypies, disorganized breathing patterns, scoliosis and sleep disturbances, among others. The FDA approval of DAYBUE for the treatment of Rett syndrome was based on the positive results from our pivotal Phase 3 LAVENDER study which demonstrated statistically significant improvement over placebo for both co-primary endpoints as well as the key secondary endpoint. Under the terms of the 2018 agreement, Neuren received an upfront payment of $10.0 million and is eligible to receive milestone payments of up to $400.0 million based on the achievement of certain development and sales milestones for Rett syndrome in North America, of which, $50 million has been paid to date. Neuren is also eligible to receive up to $55.0 million in development and sales milestone for Fragile X syndrome in North America. In addition, Neuren is eligible to receive tiered, escalating, double-digit percentage royalties based on net sales in North America. The following tables provide a summary of milestone and royalty payments that Neuren remains eligible to receive based on the achievement of net sales of trofinetide in North America in any given year: Sales Milestones Based on Annual Net Sales in North America Net Sales $250 million $50 million Net Sales $500 million $50 million Net Sales $750 million $100 million Net Sales $1 billion $150 million Tiered Royalty Rates Based on Annual Net Sales in North America $250 million 10% >$250 million, but $500 million 12% >$500 million, but $750 million 14% >$750 million 15% In July 2023, we expanded our current licensing agreement for trofinetide with Neuren to acquire rights to the drug outside of North America as well as global rights in Rett syndrome and Fragile X syndrome to Neuren development candidate NNZ-2591. Under the terms of the expanded agreement, Neuren received an upfront payment of $100.0 million and is eligible to receive up to an additional $426.3 million in milestone payments based on the achievement of certain commercial and sales milestones for trofinetide outside of North America and up to $831.3 million in milestone payments based on the achievement of certain development and sales milestones for NNZ-2591. In addition, we will be required to pay Neuren tiered royalties from the mid-teens to low-twenties percent based on net sales of trofinetide and NNZ-2591. The following table provides a summary of milestone payments that Neuren is eligible to receive based on the achievement of certain sales milestones under the terms of the expanded agreement: Territory First Commercial Sales Milestones Total Sales Milestones Europe $35 million (Rett syndrome) $10 million (2 nd indication) Up to $170 million Japan $15 million (Rett syndrome) $4 million (2 nd indication) Up to $110 million Rest of World __ Up to $83 million In addition to the treatment of hallucinations and delusions associated with the PDP, we believe that pimavanserin has the potential as a treatment of the negative symptoms of schizophrenia. Today we are evaluating pimavanserin for the treatment of the negative symptoms of schizophrenia in a Phase 3 clinical development program. The negative symptoms of schizophrenia have been associated with poor long-term outcomes and disability even when the positive symptoms are well-controlled, and today there are no FDA-approved therapies. In the fourth quarter of 2019 we announced positive results from our pivotal ADVANCE study and in the third quarter of 2020, we initiated a second pivotal study, ADVANCE-2. The Phase 3 program is evaluating the efficacy of pimavanserin in patients with predominantly negative symptoms of schizophrenia who have achieved adequate control of positive symptoms with their existing antipsychotic treatment. We completed enrollment in ADVANCE-2 and expect that top-line results will be available in the first quarter of 2024. 63 In June 2023, we announced that we added a new Phase 3 development candidate to our rare disease portfolio, ACP-101 (intranasal carbetocin), for the treatment of hyperphagia (an intense persistent sensation of hunger accompanied by food preoccupations, an extreme drive to consume food, food-related behavior problems, and a lack of normal satiety) in PWS. We acquired worldwide rights to develop and commercialize ACP-101 with the acquisition of Levo Therapeutics in June 2022. In November 2023, we initiated the Phase 3 COMPASS PWS study evaluating the efficacy and safety of ACP-101 for the treatment of hyperphagia in PWS. In addition, in August 2022 we announced that we are developing an internally discovered new molecule, ACP-204, which builds upon the learnings of pimavanserin in the treatment of neuropsychiatric symptoms. We completed Phase 1 study of ACP-204 which demonstrated a favorable safety and tolerability profile, and supports its target product profile as a potential treatment for ADP. In November 2023, we initiated a Phase 2 study evaluating the efficacy and safety of ACP-204 for the treatment of hallucinations and delusions associated with ADP. ACP-204 is a new chemical entity for which we hold the worldwide rights. In January 2022, we entered into a license and collaboration agreement with Stoke to discover, develop and commercialize novel RNA-based medicines for the potential treatment of severe and rare genetic neurodevelopmental diseases of the CNS. The collaboration includes SYNGAP1 syndrome, Rett syndrome (MECP2), and an undisclosed neurodevelopmental target. For the SYNGAP1 program, the two companies will jointly share global research, development and commercialization responsibilities and share 50/50 in all worldwide costs and future profits. For the Rett syndrome (MECP2) and the undisclosed neurodevelopmental program, Stoke will lead research and pre-clinical development activities, while we will lead clinical development and commercialization activities. We have incurred substantial operating losses since our inception due in large part to expenditures for our research and development activities. As of December 31, 2023, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $2.4 billion. Contingent on the level of business development activities we may complete as well as pipeline programs we may advance, we may continue to incur operating losses for the next few years as we incur significant research and development costs and costs for continued commercialization of NUPLAZID and DAYBUE. Financial Operations Overview Product Revenues Net product sales consist of sales of NUPLAZID and DAYBUE. The FDA approved NUPLAZID in April 2016 for the treatment of hallucinations and delusions associated with PDP and we launched the product in the United States in May 2016. The FDA approved DAYBUE in March 2023 for the treatment of Rett syndrome and we launched the product in the United States in April 2023. Cost of Product Sales Cost of product sales consists of third-party manufacturing costs, freight, and indirect overhead costs associated with sales of NUPLAZID and DAYBUE. Cost of product sales may also include period costs related to certain inventory manufacturing services, excess or obsolete inventory adjustment charges, unabsorbed manufacturing and overhead costs, and manufacturing variances. In addition, cost of product sales may include license fees and royalties. License fees and royalties currently consist of milestone payments capitalized and subsequently amortized under our 2018 license agreement with Neuren. License fees and royalties also include royalties of tiered, escalating, double-digit percentages due to Neuren based upon net sales of DAYBUE. Cost of sales for a newly launched product does not include the full cost of manufacturing until the initial pre-launch inventory is depleted, and additional inventory is manufactured and sold. Thus the cost of sales as a percentage of net sales of DAYBUE for the year ended December 31, 2023 was affected by use of the initial pre-launch inventory, which was previously expensed as research and development expense, and is referred to as zero cost inventories. However, we do not expect that the cost of sales as a percentage of net sales of DAYBUE will increase significantly once we commence the sales of full cost inventories. 64 Research and Development Expenses Our research and development expenses have consisted primarily of fees paid to external service providers, salaries and related personnel expenses, facilities and equipment expenses, and other costs incurred related to pre-commercial product candidates. We charge all research and development expenses to operations as incurred. Our research and development activities have focused on pimavanserin, trofinetide, ACP-101, ACP-204 and other early-stage programs. We currently are responsible for all costs incurred in the ongoing development of pimavanserin. In connection with the FDA approval of NUPLAZID, we committed to conduct four post-marketing studies. We have fulfilled three of the four studies. The fourth commitment has been completed and we are awaiting FDA acknowledgement and acceptance. In connection with the FDA approval of DAYBUE, we are required to conduct post-marketing work, including a clinical study of renal impairment in healthy volunteers, nonclinical carcinogenicity studies, and nonclinical in vitro drug interaction studies. We will be responsible for all costs incurred for these post-marketing requirements. In addition, we expect to incur increased research and development expenses as a result of advancement of our early-stage development pipeline programs. We use external service providers to manufacture our product candidates and for the majority of the services performed in connection with the preclinical and clinical development of pimavanserin, trofinetide, and our early-stage programs. Historically, we have used our internal research and development resources, including our employees and discovery infrastructure, across several projects and many of our costs have not been attributable to a specific project. Accordingly, we have not reported our internal research and development costs on a project-by-project basis. To the extent that external expenses are not attributable to a specific project, they are included in other early-stage programs. The following table summarizes our research and development expenses for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022, and 2021 (in thousands): Years Ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 Costs of external service providers: NUPLAZID (pimavanserin) $ 55,527 $ 62,746 $ 73,696 DAYBUE (trofinetide) 32,065 62,300 39,814 ACP-101 11,887 2,085 ACP-204 43,768 16,898 2,569 Early-stage programs 26,789 45,803 33,395 Upfront and milestone payments* 102,500 88,741 10,999 Subtotal 272,536 278,573 160,473 Internal costs 61,675 60,422 56,973 Stock-based compensation 17,408 22,580 21,969 Total research and development expenses $ 351,619 $ 361,575 $ 239,415 _____________________ * Includes upfront and milestone consideration as well as transaction costs associated with acquired in-process research and development. At this time, due to the risks inherent in regulatory requirements and clinical development, we are unable to estimate with certainty the costs we will incur for the ongoing or additional development of pimavanserin for the negative symptoms of schizophrenia or to support the commercialization of DAYBUE, as well as the further development of our early-stage pipeline programs. Likewise, we are unable to determine with certainty the anticipated completion dates for our current research and development programs. Clinical development and regulatory approval timelines, probability of success, and development costs vary widely. While our current development efforts are primarily focused on advancing the development of pimavanserin for the treatment of the negative symptoms of schizophrenia and the development of ACP-101, ACP-204 and other early-stage programs, we anticipate that we will make determinations as to which programs to pursue and how much funding to direct to each program on an ongoing basis in response to the scientific and clinical success of each product candidate, as well as an ongoing assessment of the commercial potential of each opportunity and our financial position. We cannot forecast with any degree of certainty which product opportunities will be subject to future collaborative or licensing arrangements, when such arrangements will be secured, if at all, and to what degree any such arrangements would affect our development plans and capital requirements. Similarly, we are unable to estimate with certainty the costs we will incur for post-marketing studies that we committed to conduct in connection with FDA approval of DAYBUE. 65 We expect our research and development expenses will continue to be substantial as we conduct studies pursuant to our post-marketing commitments and pursue the development of pimavanserin for the negative symptoms of schizophrenia and the further development of ACP-101, ACP-204 and other early-stage pipeline programs. The lengthy process of completing clinical trials and supporting development activities and seeking regulatory approval for our product opportunities requires the expenditure of substantial resources. Any failure by us or delay in completing clinical trials, or in obtaining regulatory approvals, could cause our research and development expenses to increase and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Our selling, general and administrative expenses consist of salaries and other related costs, including stock-based compensation expense, for our commercial personnel, including our specialty sales forces, our medical education professionals, and our personnel serving in executive, finance, business development, and business operations functions. Also included in selling, general and administrative expenses are fees paid to external service providers to support our commercial activities associated with NUPLAZID and DAYBUE, professional fees associated with legal and accounting services, costs associated with patents and patent applications for our intellectual property and charitable donations to independent charitable foundations that support Parkinson disease patients generally. Changes in selling, general and administrative expenses in future periods are subject to the evolving PDP market dynamics, the Rett syndrome market and our further development of pimavanserin in additional indications other than PDP. Income Tax Expense Because we maintain a full valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets, income tax expense is expected to primarily consist of current federal and state tax expense as a result of taxable income anticipated or incurred in certain jurisdictions. Income tax expense may fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to adjustments related to non-recurring transactions, timing of revenue and expense across different tax jurisdictions and changes in certain tax assessments. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates A summary of the significant accounting policies is provided in Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. We evaluate our estimates on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and on various other assumptions and factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from those estimates under different assumptions and conditions. Management considers an accounting estimate to be critical if: it requires a significant level of estimation uncertainty; and changes in the estimate are reasonably likely to have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We believe the following critical accounting policies and estimates describe the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statement. 66 Product Sales, Net We sell NUPLAZID through SPs and SDs. SPs dispense product to a patient based on the fulfillment of a prescription and SDs sell product to government facilities, long-term care pharmacies, or in-patient hospital pharmacies. We sell DAYBUE through a single wholesale distributor. Product shipping and handling costs are included in cost of product sales. We recognize revenue from product sales at the net sales price (the transaction price ) which includes estimates of variable consideration for which reserves are established and reflects each of these as either a reduction to the related account receivable or as an accrued liability, depending on how the amount payable is settled. Overall, these reserves reflect our best estimates of the amount of consideration to which we are entitled based on the terms of the contract. Actual amounts of consideration ultimately received may differ from our estimates. If actual results in the future vary from estimates, we may need to adjust our estimates, which would affect net revenue in the period of adjustment. The following sales discounts and allowances involve a substantial degree of judgment: Rebates : Allowances for rebates include mandated discounts under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program and the Medicare Part D prescription drug benefit. Rebates are amounts owed after the final dispensing of the product to a benefit plan participant and are based upon contractual agreements with, or statutory requirements pertaining to, Medicaid and Medicare benefit providers. The allowance for rebates is based on statutory discount rates and expected utilization. Our estimates for expected utilization of rebates is based on historical data received from the SPs, SDs and the single wholesale distributor since product launch. Rebates are generally invoiced and paid in arrears so that the accrual balance consists of an estimate of the amount expected to be incurred for the current quarter activity, plus an accrual balance for prior quarters unpaid rebates still estimated to be incurred. Allowances for rebates also include amounts due under the Inflation Reduction act of 2022 for Medicare Part D unit sales with applicable period AMP increases that outpace inflation over the benchmark period. The applicable period will be twelve months on October 1 of each year, with the initial applicable period beginning on October 1, 2022. The benchmark period AMP price is January 1, 2021 through September 30, 2021. Our estimates are based Medicare Part D sales as a percentage of gross sales and the rate AMP for the current period will be in excess the benchmark period. We regularly monitor our estimates and record adjustments when rebate trends, rebate programs and contract terms, legislative changes, or other significant events indicate that a change in the estimates is appropriate. To date, our estimates have not differed materially from actual rebates. However, subsequent changes in estimates may result in a material change in our accruals, which could also materially affect our balance sheet and results of operations. Chargebacks : Chargebacks are discounts and fees that relate to contracts with government and other entities purchasing from the SDs at a discounted price. The SDs charge back to us the difference between the price initially paid by the SDs and the discounted price paid to the SDs by these entities. We also incur group purchasing organization fees for transactions through certain purchasing organizations. We estimate sales with these entities and accrue for anticipated chargebacks and organization fees, based on the applicable contractual terms. To date, our estimates have not differed materially from the actual chargebacks and organization fees. However, subsequent changes in estimates may result in a material change in our accruals, which could also materially affect our balance sheet and results of operations. Research and Development Accruals We estimate certain costs and expenses and accrue for these liabilities as part of our process of preparing financial statements. Examples of areas in which subjective judgments may be required include, among other things, costs associated with services provided by contract organizations for preclinical development, manufacturing of our product candidates and clinical trials, and personnel related expenses. We accrue for costs incurred as the services are being provided by monitoring the status of the trial or services provided, and the invoices received from our external service providers. In the case of clinical trials, a portion of the estimated cost normally relates to the projected cost to treat a patient in the trials, and this cost is recognized based on the number of patients enrolled in the trial. Other indirect costs are generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the estimated period of the study. As actual costs become known to us, we adjust our accruals. To date, our estimates have not differed materially from the actual costs incurred. However, subsequent changes in estimates may result in a material change in our accruals, which could also materially affect our balance sheet and results of operations. 67 Stock-Based Compensation The fair value of each employee stock option and each employee stock purchase plan right granted is estimated on the grant date under the fair value method using the Black-Scholes valuation model, which requires us to make a number of assumptions including the estimated expected life of the award and related volatility. The fair value of restricted stock units is estimated based on the market price of our common stock on the date of grant. The estimated fair values of stock options, purchase plan rights, and regular restricted stock units are then expensed over the vesting period. For restricted stock units requiring satisfaction of both market and service conditions, the estimated fair values are generally expensed over the longest of the explicit, implicit and derived service periods. Performance-based stock awards vest upon the achievement of certain pre-defined company-specific performance-based criteria. Expense related to these performance-based stock awards is generally recognized ratably over the expected performance period once the pre-defined performance-based criteria for vesting becomes probable. See also Item 15 of Part IV, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies for further discussion of our assumptions and estimates related to our stock-based compensation. Results of Operations Fluctuations in Operating Results Our results of operations have fluctuated significantly from period to period in the past and are likely to continue to do so in the future. We anticipate that our quarterly and annual results of operations will be impacted for the foreseeable future by several factors, including the progress and timing of expenditures related to our commercial activities associated with NUPLAZID and DAYBUE and the extent to which we generate revenue from product sales, our development of pimavanserin for the negative symptoms of schizophrenia, our further development of our early-stage pipeline programs and the progress and timing of expenditures related to studies of DAYBUE pursuant to our post-marketing commitments. Further, we expect our sales allowances to vary from quarter to quarter due to fluctuations in our Medicare Part D Coverage Gap liability and the volume of purchases eligible for government mandated discounts and rebates, as well as changes in discount percentages that may be impacted by potential future price increases and other factors. We cannot predict with certainty what the full impact that geopolitical and macroeconomic developments, including the ongoing military conflict between Ukraine and Russia and the ongoing conflict in Israel and surrounding areas may have on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Due to these fluctuations, we believe that the period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 Product Sales, Net Net product sales, comprised of NUPLAZID and DAYBUE, were $726.4 million and $517.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Net product sales of NUPLAZID were $549.2 million and $517.2 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively. The increase in net product sales of NUPLAZID of $32.0 million was due to the growth in NUPLAZID unit sales as well as a higher average net selling price in NUPLAZID in 2023 compared to 2022. Net product sales of DAYBUE were $177.2 million for 2023. There were no net product sales of DAYBUE during 2022. The following table provides a summary of activity with respect to our sales allowances and accruals for the year ended December 31, 2023 (in thousands): Distribution Fees, Discounts & Chargebacks Co-Pay Assistance Rebates, Data Fees & Returns Total Balance at December 31, 2022 $ 10,923 $ (340 ) $ 26,046 $ 36,629 Provision related to current period sales 97,797 3,979 113,011 214,787 Credits/payments for current period sales (85,641 ) (4,499 ) (26,957 ) (117,097 ) Credits/payments for prior period sales (10,923 ) 340 (26,046 ) (36,629 ) Balance at December 31, 2023 $ 12,156 $ (520 ) $ 86,054 $ 97,690 68 Cost of Product Sales Cost of product sales was $41.6 million and $10.2 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively, or approximately 6% and 2% of net product sales, respectively. Cost of product sales as a percentage of net product sales for NUPLAZID remains flat in 2023 as compared to 2022. The increase in cost of product sales was primarily due to the $21.8 million in license fees and royalties expensed during 2023 for DAYBUE, including royalties due to Neuren based on net sales of DAYBUE and the amortization of the milestone payments capitalized under our 2018 license agreement with Neuren. There were no license fees and royalties in the same period of 2022 for either product. Certain manufacturing related expenses incurred prior to DAYBUE receiving FDA approval were classified as research and development expenses, resulting in zero cost inventory. Prior to receiving FDA approval for DAYBUE in March 2023, we manufactured inventory and recorded approximately $29.9 million related to the zero cost inventory as research and development expense. Utilizing the actual direct costs to manufacture DAYBUE prior to receiving FDA approval, had the previously expensed inventory been capitalized and recognized when sold, the total cost of sales with these manufacturing costs included for the year ended December 31, 2023 would have increased by approximately $9.4 million. We do not expect our cost of product sales for DAYBUE to increase significantly as a percentage of net product sales in future periods as we continue to produce inventory for future sales. We expect to finish selling the zero cost inventories of DAYBUE in 2024. Subsequent to using our entire zero cost inventories, we estimate our overall cost of product sales as a percentage of total net product sales will be in the range of a mid-single digit to high single digit percentage. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses decreased to $351.6 million in 2023, including $17.4 million in stock-based compensation, from $361.6 million in 2022, including $22.6 million in stock-based compensation. The decrease in research and development expenses during 2023 was mainly due to trofinetide commercial supply build that was expensed prior to approval. There was a similar level of clinical spend and business development investment year over year. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased to $406.6 million in 2023, including $48.0 million in stock-based compensation expense, from $369.1 million in 2022, including $44.5 million in stock-based compensation expense. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily due to increased commercial costs associated with the DAYBUE launch, partially offset by reductions in expenses associated with NUPLAZID. Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 Product Sales, Net Product sales, net, comprised of NUPLAZID, were $517.2 million and $484.1 million in 2022 and 2021, respectively. Product sales, net for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased as compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily due to a higher average gross selling price of NUPLAZID in 2022 as compared to 2021. The following table provides a summary of activity with respect to our sales allowances and accruals for the year ended December 31, 2022 (in thousands): Distribution Fees, Discounts & Chargebacks Co-Pay Assistance Rebates, Data Fees & Returns Total Balance at December 31, 2021 $ 8,467 $ (202 ) $ 15,717 $ 23,982 Provision related to current period sales 80,836 3,087 51,872 135,795 Credits/payments for current period sales (69,913 ) (3,427 ) (25,826 ) (99,166 ) Credits/payments for prior period sales (8,467 ) 202 (15,717 ) (23,982 ) Balance at December 31, 2022 $ 10,923 $ (340 ) $ 26,046 $ 36,629 69 Cost of Product Sales Cost of product sales was $10.2 million and $19.1 million in 2022 and 2021, respectively, or approximately 2% and 4% of net product sales, respectively. The cost of product sales excluding license fees and royalties, as a percentage of net product sales stayed flat during 2022 as compared to 2021. License fees and royalties were $0 and $8.3 million in 2022 and 2021, respectively, and in 2021 include royalties due to the Ipsen Group of two percent of net sales of NUPLAZID and amortization related to the milestone paid to the Ipsen Group upon FDA approval of NUPLAZID in 2016. The royalty obligation terminated in October 2021 which was the primary reason for the decrease in cost of product sales during 2022 as compared to 2021. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses increased to $361.6 million in 2022, including $22.6 million in stock-based compensation expense, from $239.4 million in 2021, including $22.0 million in stock-based compensation expense. The increase in research and development expenses was mainly due to the $60 million upfront payment made to Stoke for the license and collaboration agreement and the $10 million milestone to Neuren in 2022 upon acceptance of the trofinetide NDA filing, as well as increased costs of our development activities for trofinetide, ACP-204 and other early-stage programs. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased to $369.1 million in 2022, including $44.5 million in stock-based compensation expense, from $396.0 million in 2021, including $40.3 million in stock-based compensation expense. The decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily related to the continued reduction and optimization of commercial spend related to NUPLAZID, leading to a reduction in overall advertising and promotional costs, offset by investments in preparing for the launch of trofinetide. Liquidity and Capital Resources We have funded our operations primarily with revenues from sales of NUPLAZID and DAYBUE since their approvals, and through sales of our equity securities and interest income. We anticipate that the level of cash used in our operations will fluctuate in future periods depending on the levels of spending required for our ongoing and planned commercial activities for NUPLAZID and DAYBUE, our ongoing and planned development activities for pimavanserin for the negative symptoms of schizophrenia, ACP-101 as a treatment for Prader-Willi syndrome and ACP-204 as a treatment for ADP, studies to be conducted pursuant to our post-marketing commitments, our ongoing and planned development activities for other early-stage pipeline programs and strategic business development to further expand our portfolio. We expect that our cash, cash equivalents, and investment securities will be sufficient to fund our planned operations through and beyond the next 12 months. We may require additional financing in the future to fund our operations. Our future capital requirements will depend on, and could increase significantly as a result of, many factors, including: the costs of acquiring additional product candidates or research and development programs; the scope, prioritization and number of our research and development programs; the ability of our collaborators and us to reach the milestones and other events or developments triggering payments under our collaboration or license agreements, or our collaborators ability to make payments under these agreements; our ability to enter into new collaboration and license agreements; the progress in, and the costs of, our ongoing and planned development activities for pimavanserin, post-marketing studies for DAYBUE to be conducted over the next several years, and ongoing and planned commercial activities for NUPLAZID and DAYBUE; the costs of our development activities for our early-stage pipeline programs; the costs of commercializing NUPLAZID and DAYBUE, including the maintenance and development of our sales and marketing capabilities; the costs of establishing, or contracting for, sales and marketing capabilities for our product candidates; 70 the amount of U.S. product sales from NUPLAZID and DAYBUE; the costs of preparing applications for regulatory approvals for DAYBUE in jurisdictions other than the U.S., for NUPLAZID in additional indications other than PDP and for other product candidates, as well as the costs required to support review of such applications; the costs of manufacturing and distributing NUPLAZID and DAYBUE for commercial use in the U.S.; our ability to obtain regulatory approval for, and subsequently generate product sales from, NUPLAZID for the negative symptoms of schizophrenia, or from DAYBUE, and our product candidates; the extent to which we are obligated to reimburse collaborators or collaborators are obligated to reimburse us for costs under collaboration agreements; the costs involved in filing, prosecuting, enforcing, and defending patent claims and other intellectual property rights; the costs of maintaining or securing manufacturing arrangements for clinical or commercial production of pimavanserin, trofinetide or other product candidates; and the costs associated with litigation, including the costs incurred in defending against any product liability claims that may be brought against us related to NUPLAZID or DAYBUE. Unless and until we can generate significant cash from our operations, we expect to satisfy our future cash needs through our existing cash, cash equivalents and investment securities, public or private sales of our securities, debt financings, or strategic collaborations. In the past, periods of turmoil and volatility in the financial markets have adversely affected the market capitalizations of many biotechnology companies, and generally made equity and debt financing more difficult to obtain. For example, due to geopolitical and macroeconomic developments, including the Ukraine-Russia military conflict and related sanctions, and the ongoing conflict in Israel and surrounding areas, the global credit and financial markets have experienced extreme volatility and disruptions, including diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates and uncertainty about economic stability. These events, coupled with other factors, may limit our access to additional financing in the future. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available when needed, we will be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs or our commercialization efforts. We also may be required to relinquish greater or all rights to product candidates at an earlier stage of development or on less favorable terms than we would otherwise choose. Additional funding, if obtained, may significantly dilute existing stockholders and could negatively impact the price of our stock. We have invested a substantial portion of our available cash in money market funds, municipal bonds, and government sponsored enterprises in accordance with our investment policy. Our investment policy defines allowable investments and establishes guidelines relating to credit quality, diversification, and maturities of our investments to preserve principal and maintain liquidity. All investment securities have a credit rating of at least Aa3/AA- or better, or P-1/A-1 or better, as determined by Moody Investors Service or Standard & Poor s. Our investment portfolio has not been adversely impacted by the disruptions in the credit markets that have occurred in the past. However, if there are future disruptions in the credit markets, there can be no assurance that our investment portfolio will not be adversely affected. Material Cash Requirements Our material cash requirements in the short and long term consist of the operational, manufacturing, and capital expenditures, a portion of which contain contractual or other obligations. We plan to fund our material cash requirements with our current financial resources together with our anticipated receipts from product sales. On a long-term basis, we manage future cash requirements relative to our long-term business plans. Our primary uses of cash and operating expenses relate to paying employees and consultants, administering clinical trials, marketing our products, and providing technology and facility infrastructure to support our operations. We also make investments in our office and laboratory facilities to enable continued expansion of our business. 71 As of December 31, 2023 we have long-term contractual obligations related to our operating leases of $66.5 million. In May 2023, we subleased our 2 nd floor of corporate office space in San Diego with a total minimum sublease income of $18.4 million. In addition to operating leases, we enter into certain other long-term commitments for goods and services that are outstanding for periods greater than one year. We also enter into short-term agreements with various vendors and suppliers of goods and services in the normal course of operations through purchase orders or other documentation, or that are undocumented except for an invoice. Such short-term agreements are generally outstanding for periods less than a year and are settled by cash payments upon delivery of goods and services. The nature of the work being conducted under these agreements is such that, in most cases, the services may be stopped on short notice. In such event, we would not be liable for the full amount of the agreement. We have entered into various collaboration, licensing and merger agreements which generally include upfront license fees, development and commercial milestone payments upon achievement of certain clinical and commercial development and annual net sales milestones, as well as royalties calculated as a percentage of net product sales, with rates that vary by agreement. As of December 31, 2023, we may be required to make milestone payments up to $3.4 billion in the aggregate. These payments are contingent upon achieving future development, regulatory and commercial milestones. We are also required to make royalty payments in connection with the sale of products developed under those agreements. Cash Flows At December 31, 2023, we had $438.9 million in cash, cash equivalents, and investment securities, compared to $416.8 million at December 31, 2022. This $22.1 million increase in cash, cash equivalents, and investment securities during 2023 was primarily due to net cash provided by operating activities and increased cash proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options. Net cash provided by operating activities was $16.7 million in 2023 compared to net cash used in operating activities of $114.0 million in 2022 and $125.7 million in 2021. The increase in net cash provided by operating activities in 2023 relative to 2022 was primarily due to an increase in our net revenues and decreased research and development costs , partially offset by increased sales and marketing costs . The decrease in net cash used in operating activities in 2022 relative to 2021 was primarily due to an increase in our net revenues as well as decreased sales and marketing costs, partially offset by increased research and development costs. Net cash provided by investing activities totaled $32.0 million in 2023 compared to net cash provided by investing activities of $73.2 million in 2022 and net cash used in investing activities of $71.1 million in 2021. The decrease in net cash provided by investing activities in 2023 compared to 2022 was primarily due to milestone payment of $40 million to Neuren and decreased net sale and maturities of investment securities. The increase in net cash provided by investing activities in 2022 compared to 2021 was primarily due to increased net maturities of investment securities. Net cash provided by financing activities increased to $25.1 million in 2023 compared to $8.2 million in 2022 and $18.2 million in 2021. The increase in net cash provided by financing activities in 2023 relative to 2022 was primarily due to an increase in proceeds resulting from the exercise of employee stock options. The decrease in net cash provided by financing activities in 2022 relative to 2021 was primarily due to a decrease in proceeds resulting from the exercise of employee stock options. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements To date, we have not had any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which are established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. As such, we are not materially exposed to any financing, liquidity, market, or credit risk that could arise if we had engaged in these relationships. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Item 15 of Part IV, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. 72 
