CIK: 1071255
Company Name: GOLDEN ENTERTAINMENT INC 
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2019-03-18
Accession Number: 0001564590-19-008099


ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 29 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 44 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 45 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 88 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 88 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 88 PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 89 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 89 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 89 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 89 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES 89 PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 90 ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 94 SIGNATURES 95 PART I As used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, unless the context suggests otherwise, the terms Golden, we, our and us refer to Golden Entertainment, Inc. and its subsidiaries. Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results that are subject to the safe harbors created under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the Exchange Act ). Forward-looking statements can generally be identified by the use of words such as anticipate, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, forecast, intend, plan, project, seek, should, think, will, would and similar expressions. In addition, forward-looking statements include statements regarding cost savings, synergies, growth opportunities and other financial and operating benefits of our casino and other acquisitions; our strategies, objectives, business opportunities and plans for future expansion, developments or acquisitions; anticipated future growth and trends in our business or key markets; projections of future financial condition, operating results, income, capital expenditures, costs or other financial items; anticipated regulatory and legislative changes; and other characterizations of future events or circumstances as well as other statements that are not statements of historical fact. Forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions regarding our business, the economy and other future conditions. These forward-looking statements are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties that may change at any time, and readers are therefore cautioned that actual results could differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially include: our ability to realize the anticipated cost savings, synergies and other benefits of our casino and other acquisitions, including the casinos we recently acquired in Las Vegas and Laughlin, Nevada, and integration risks relating to such transactions; changes in national, regional and local economic and market conditions; legislative and regulatory matters (including the cost of compliance or failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations); increases in gaming taxes and fees in the jurisdictions in which we operate; litigation; increased competition; our ability to renew our distributed gaming contracts; reliance on key personnel (including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Strategy and Financial Officer); the level of our indebtedness and our ability to comply with covenants in our debt instruments; terrorist incidents; natural disasters; severe weather conditions (including weather or road conditions that limit access to our properties); the effects of environmental and structural building conditions; the effects of disruptions to our information technology and other systems and infrastructure; factors affecting the gaming, entertainment and hospitality industries generally, and other factors identified under the heading Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this report, elsewhere in this report and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the filing date of this report. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason. 1 ITEM 1. BUSINESS Corporate Information We were incorporated in Minnesota in 1998 under the name of GCI Lakes, Inc., which name was subsequently changed to Lakes Gaming, Inc. in August 1998, to Lakes Entertainment, Inc. in June 2002 and to Golden Entertainment, Inc. in July 2015. Our shares began trading publicly in January 1999. The mailing address of our headquarters is 6595 S Jones Boulevard, Las Vegas, Nevada 89118, and our telephone number at that location is (702) 893-7777. Business Overview We own and operate a diversified entertainment platform, consisting of a portfolio of gaming assets that focus on resort casino operations and distributed gaming (including gaming in our branded taverns). We conduct our business through two reportable operating segments: Casinos and Distributed Gaming. In our Casinos segment, we own and operate ten resort casinos: nine in Nevada and one in Maryland. Four of our Nevada resort casino properties were added in October 2017 as a result of our acquisition of American Casino & Entertainment Properties LLC ( American ), and in January 2019 we acquired two additional resort casino properties in Laughlin, Nevada, as further described below. Our Distributed Gaming segment involves the installation, maintenance and operation of slots and amusement devices in non-casino locations such as restaurants, bars, taverns, convenience stores, liquor stores and grocery stores in Nevada and Montana, and the operation of branded taverns targeting local patrons located primarily in the greater Las Vegas, Nevada metropolitan area. In January 2018, we completed an underwritten public offering pursuant to our universal shelf registration statement in which certain of our shareholders resold an aggregate of 6.5 million shares of our common stock, and we sold 975,000 newly issued shares of our common stock pursuant to the exercise in full of the underwriters over-allotment option to purchase additional shares. Our net proceeds from the offering were approximately $25.6 million after deducting underwriting discounts and offering expenses. On November 7, 2018, our Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase up to $25.0 million shares of common stock, subject to available liquidity, general market and economic conditions, alternate uses for the capital and other factors. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we repurchased approximately 1.2 million shares of our common stock in open market transactions for approximately $19.6 million at an average price of $16.06 per share. As of December 31, 2018, approximately $5.4 million of shares of common stock remained available for repurchase pursuant to this program. On March 12, 2019, our Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase up to $25.0 million additional shares of common stock, subject to available liquidity, general market and economic conditions, alternate uses for the capital and other factors, which replaces the November 2018 share repurchase program. Share repurchases may be made from time to time in open market transactions, block trades or in private transactions in accordance with applicable securities laws and regulations and other legal requirements, including compliance with our finance agreements. There is no minimum number of shares that we are required to repurchase and the repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time without prior notice. Acquisitions On January 14, 2019, we completed the acquisition of all of the outstanding equity interests of Edgewater Gaming, LLC and Colorado Belle Gaming, LLC (the Laughlin Entities ) from Marnell Gaming, LLC ( Marnell ) for $155.0 million in cash (subject to the post-closing adjustment provisions in the purchase agreement) and the issuance by us of 911,002 shares of our common stock to certain assignees of Marnell ( the Laughlin Acquisition ) . The Laughlin Acquisition added two resort casino properties in Laughlin, Nevada to our casino portfolio: the Edgewater Hotel & Casino Resort (the Edgewater ) and the Colorado Belle Hotel & Casino Resort (the Colorado Belle ), which increase our scale and presence in the Southern Nevada market. The results of operations of the Laughlin Entities will be included in our results subsequent to the acquisition date. On October 20, 2017, we completed the acquisition of all of the outstanding equity interests of American (the American Acquisition ) for $787.6 million in cash (after giving effect to post-closing adjustments) and the issuance 2 by us of approximately 4.0 million shares of our common stock to a former American equity holder. The American Acquisition added four Nevada resor t casino properties to our casino portfolio, including The STRAT Hotel, Casino & SkyPod ( The Strat ) in Las Vegas. These additional resort casino properties expanded and strengthened our presence in Nevada and the Las Vegas locals market, significantly in creased our operational scale and provided us with an iconic Las Vegas Strip destination property. The results of operations of American have been included in our results subsequent to that date. In connection with the closing of the American Acquisition, we entered into two new credit agreements with respect to a $900.0 million senior secured first lien credit facility (consisting of $800.0 million in term loans and a $100.0 million revolving credit facility, which was undrawn at closing and upsized to $20 0.0 million in 2018) and a $200.0 million senior secured second lien term loan facility. We used the net proceeds from the borrowings under these facilities primarily to fund the cash purchase price in the American Acquisition (a portion of which was used to repay American then outstanding senior secured indebtedness), to refinance our outstanding senior secured indebtedness under our then-existing senior secured credit facility, and to pay certain transaction fees and expenses. See Note 8, Debt , in the a ccompanying consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the new credit agreements and associated refinancing. In January 2016, we completed the acquisition of approximately 1,100 slots from a distributed gaming operator in Montana, as well as certain other non-gaming assets and the right to operate within certain locations (the Initial Montana Acquisition ). Additionally, in April 2016, we completed the acquisition of approximately 1,800 slots from a second distributed gaming operator in Montana, as well as amusement devices and other non-gaming assets and the right to operate within certain locations (the Second Montana Acquisition and, together with the Initial Montana Acquisition, the Montana Acquisitions ). The results of operations of the distributed gaming businesses acquired in the Montana Acquisitions have been included in our results subsequent to their respective acquisition dates. See Note 4, Acquisitions , in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding each of these acquisitions. Casinos We own and operate ten resort casino properties in Nevada and Maryland, comprising: (1) The Strat, Arizona Charlie Decatur and Arizona Charlie Boulder in Las Vegas, Nevada, (2) the Aquarius Casino Resort (the Aquarius ), the Edgewater and the Colorado Belle in Laughlin, Nevada, (3) the Pahrump Nugget Hotel Casino ( Pahrump Nugget ), Gold Town Casino and Lakeside Casino & RV Park in Pahrump, Nevada, and (4) the Rocky Gap Casino Resort ( Rocky Gap ) in Flintstone, Maryland. The Strat: The Strat is our premier casino property, located on Las Vegas Blvd on the north end of the Las Vegas Strip. The Strat comprises the iconic SkyPod, a casino, a hotel and a retail center. As of December 31, 2018, The Strat featured an 80,000 sq. ft. casino, 2,429 hotel rooms, 686 slots, 48 table games, a race and sports book, 11 restaurants, two rooftop pools, a fitness center, retail shops and entertainment facilities. We are currently investing in a strategic renovation of The Strat, with $23.9 million invested as of December 31, 2018. Upgrades to the property encompass room and suite renovations, new premium food and beverage outlets including a tap room concept featuring our signature branded craft beer and menu, a refresh of the Top of the World restaurant, remodel of the casino room floor, addition of attractive group meeting space, and an update to the signage and lighting on the exterior. Arizona Charlie casinos : Our Arizona Charlie Decatur and Arizona Charlie Boulder casino properties primarily serve local Las Vegas patrons, and provide an alternative experience to the Las Vegas Strip. Arizona Charlie Decatur casino is located four miles west of the Las Vegas Strip in the heavily populated west Las Vegas area, and is easily accessible from US Route 95, a major highway in Las Vegas. Arizona Charlie Boulder casino is located on Boulder Highway, in an established retail and residential neighborhood in the eastern metropolitan area of Las Vegas. The property is easily accessible from I-515, the primary east/west highway in Las Vegas. As of December 31, 2018, Arizona Charlie Decatur casino offered 259 hotel rooms, 1,032 slots, seven table games, race and sports books, five restaurants, and an approximately 400-seat bingo parlor, and Arizona Charlie Boulder casino offered 303 hotel rooms, 823 slots, seven table games, race and sports books, four restaurants, and an approximately 450-seat bingo parlor, as well as an RV park with approximately 220 RV hook-up sites. 3 Laughlin casinos : We own and operate three casinos in Laughlin, Nevada, which is located approximately 90 miles from Las Ve gas on the western riverbank of the Colorado River. Our Laughlin casinos are situated on 56 contiguous acres along the heart of the Laughlin Riverwalk and cater primarily to patrons traveling from Arizona and Southern California, as well as customers from Nevada seeking an alternative to the Las Vegas experience. The Aquarius is the largest resort casino property by number of hotel rooms in the Laughlin, Nevada market. As of December 31, 2018, the Aquarius had 1,906 hotel rooms, 1,217 slots, 33 table games and eight restaurants. As of January 14, 2019 (the date we acquired the Colorado Belle and the Edgewater in the Laughlin Acquisition), the Edgewater and the Colorado Belle collectively featured over 1,400 slots, 39 table games and 2,149 hotel rooms, as wel l as ten restaurants and dedicated entertainment venues, including the Laughlin Event Center. The Laughlin Event Center, located at the Edgewater is an outdoor arena with a capacity of approximately 12,000 guests and hosts multiple headline concerts and ot her events throughout the year. Pahrump casinos : We own and operate three casinos in Pahrump, Nevada, which is located approximately 60 miles from Las Vegas and is a gateway to Death Valley National Park. As of December 31, 2018, Pahrump Nugget offered 69 hotel rooms, 399 slots, ten table games, a race and sports book, an approximately 200-seat bingo facility and a bowling center. As of December 31, 2018, our Gold Town Casino offered 224 slots and an approximately 100-seat bingo facility, and our Lakeside Casino & RV Park offered 173 slots and approximately 160 RV hook-up sites. Rocky Gap : Rocky Gap is situated on approximately 270 acres in the Rocky Gap State Park in Maryland, which we lease from the Maryland Department of Natural Resources (the Maryland DNR ) under a 40-year ground lease expiring in 2052 (plus a 20-year option renewal). As of December 31, 2018, Rocky Gap offered 665 slots, 17 table games, two casino bars, three restaurants, a spa and the only Jack Nicklaus signature golf course in Maryland. Rocky Gap is a AAA Four Diamond Award winning resort with 198 hotel rooms, as well as an event and conference center. Distributed Gaming Our Distributed Gaming segment involves the installation, maintenance and operation of slots and amusement devices in non-casino locations such as restaurants, bars, taverns, convenience stores, liquor stores and grocery stores in Nevada and Montana. In August 2017, we were licensed as a video gaming terminal operator in Illinois, providing for potential expansion into a new jurisdiction. We place our slots and amusement devices in locations where we believe they will receive maximum customer traffic, generally near a store entrance. In addition, we own and operate branded taverns with slots, which target local patrons, primarily in the greater Las Vegas, Nevada metropolitan area. As of December 31, 2018, our distributed gaming operations comprised approximately 10,700 slots in over 1,000 locations. Nevada law limits distributed gaming operations (also known as restricted gaming operations) to certain types of non-casino locations, including grocery stores, drug stores, convenience stores, restaurants, bars, taverns and liquor stores, where gaming is incidental to the primary business being conducted at the location and games are generally limited to 15 or fewer slots and no other forms of gaming activity. The gaming area in these business locations is typically small, and in many instances, segregated from the primary business area, including the use of alcoves in grocery stores and drug stores and installation of slots into the physical bar (also known as bar top slots) in bars and taverns. Such segregation provides greater oversight and supervision of the slots. Under Montana law, distributed gaming operations are limited to business locations licensed to sell alcoholic beverages for on-premises consumption only, with such locations generally restricted to offering a maximum of 20 slots. In Nevada, we generally enter into three types of slot placement contracts as part of our distributed gaming business: space agreements, revenue share agreements and participation agreements. Under space agreements, we pay a fixed monthly rental for the right to install, maintain and operate our slots. Under revenue share agreements, we pay a percentage of the gaming revenue generated from our slots, rather than a fixed monthly rental fee. With regard to both space agreements and revenue share agreements, we hold the applicable gaming license to conduct gaming at the location (although revenue share locations are required to obtain separate regulatory approval to receive a percentage of the gaming revenue). Under participation agreements, the business location holds the applicable gaming license and retains a percentage of the gaming revenue generated from our slots. In Montana, our slot and amusement device placement contracts are all participation agreements. 4 Our branded taverns offer a casual, upscale environment catering to local patrons offering superior food, craft beer and other alcoholic beverages, and typically include 15 onsite slots. As of December 31, 2018, we owned and operated 60 branded taverns, which offered a total of over 950 onsite slots. We continue to look for opportunistic and accretive opportunities to pursu e additional tavern openings and acquisitions. Most of our taverns are located in the greater Las Vegas, Nevada metropolitan area and cater to local patrons seeking more convenient entertainment establishments than traditional casino properties. Our tavern patrons are typically younger than traditional casino customers, which diversifies our customer demographic. Our tavern brands include PT Gold, PT Pub, Sierra Gold, Sean Patrick s, PT Place, PT Ranch, PT Brewing Company, Sierra Junction and SG B ar. We also own a brewery in Las Vegas, PT Brewing Company, which produces craft beer for our taverns and casinos. Sales and Marketing Casinos We market our Nevada resort casino properties to both the locals market and tourist traffic, targeting the value-driven customer. We seek to attract local residents to our Nevada casinos through promotions geared towards enhancing local play, including dining offerings at our casino restaurants and promotions of our bowling and bingo amenities. Promotional programs for out-of-market patrons focus primarily on The Strat casino property (with over 300 newly renovated rooms and the upcoming opening of our new sports book, lounge, and tap room concept), our newly remodeled hotel rooms at Pahrump Nugget and our award-winning recreational vehicle park surrounding a lake at the Lakeside Casino & RV Park. Rocky Gap is located in western Maryland in close proximity to the affluent and heavily populated metropolitan areas of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Baltimore, Maryland and Washington, D.C., as well as two major interstate freeways. Rocky Gap serves as a premier destination for both local and out-of-market patrons. Our marketing efforts for Rocky Gap are primarily focused on attracting patrons through local and regional campaigns promoting both the amenities of Rocky Gap and the vast array of outdoor activities available in the Rocky Gap State Park. Our casino sales and marketing efforts also include various loyalty programs designed to encourage repeat business at our resort casino properties. At our Las Vegas and Laughlin casinos in Nevada, we offer the ace|PLAY loyalty program. At our Pahrump, Nevada casinos, we offer the Gold Mine Rewards TM loyalty program. At Rocky Gap, we offer the Rewards Club TM loyalty program. Depending on the program, members of our loyalty programs may earn points based on gaming activity and amounts spent on rooms, food, beverage and resort activities, which points are redeemable for complimentary slot play, food, beverages and hotel rooms, among other items. As of December 31, 2018, we had approximately 600,000 active players in our marketing database, providing us with an avenue to drive customer engagement and cross-marketing opportunities across our resort casino and distributed gaming platform. Starting in 2019, we will be rolling out our new True Rewards TM loyalty program, which will link together our traditional casino destinations across the country with local taverns and non-casino locations. Our new True Rewards loyalty program is expected to reinforce the connection between all of our properties, encouraging members to stay and play at Golden Entertainment properties. Through our new loyalty program, members will build up points on one reward card playing at any of our casinos and taverns, encompassing over 130 locations when the program is fully deployed in late 2019. Members will be able to redeem their points at any of our locations. Distributed Gaming We conduct our operations in our Distributed Gaming segment in Nevada and Montana. Our Distributed Gaming customer base is comprised of the third party distributed gaming customers with whom we enter into slot and amusement device placement contracts for the installation, maintenance and operation of slots and amusement devices at non-casino locations, the primarily local patrons that use our slots and amusement devices in such locations and the primarily local patrons of our branded taverns. We seek to place our slots and amusement devices in strategic, high-traffic areas, including in our branded taverns, and the majority of our marketing efforts are focused on maximizing profitability from a high-frequency, convenience-driven customer base. Our marketing efforts also seek to capitalize on repeat visitation through the use of loyalty programs, such as our Golden Rewards promotional program for our branded taverns and our new True Rewards loyalty program once fully deployed in late 2019. Members of our Golden Rewards loyalty program earn points based on play and amounts 5 spent on the purchas e of food and beverage, and points are redeemable for complimentary slot play, food and beverages and other items. Our rewards technology is designed to track customer behavior indicators such as visitation, customer spend and customer engagement. Brand eq uity is also leveraged in our taverns through the number of our branded tavern locations located throughout the greater Las Vegas, Nevada metropolitan area. Our advertising initiatives include both traditional and non-traditional channels such as direct ma il, email, radio, print, television, social media, search engine optimization and static/dynamic billboards. Intellectual Property We pursue registration of our important trademarks and service marks in the states where we do business and with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. We have registered and/or have pending as trademarks with the United States Patent and Trademark Office, among other trademarks and service marks, Golden Entertainment and Golden Gaming, as well as various names, brands and logos relating to our resort casino properties, customer loyalty programs and branded taverns. In addition, we have also registered or applied to register numerous other trademarks in various jurisdictions in the United States in connection with our properties, facilities and development projects. We also hold a patent in the United States related to player tracking systems. Competition The resort casino and distributed gaming industries are highly competitive. Our resort casino business competes with numerous casinos and casino-hotels of varying quality and size in our markets. We also compete with other non-gaming resorts and vacation destinations, and with various other casino and other entertainment businesses. The casino entertainment business is characterized by competitors that vary considerably in their size, quality of facilities, number of operations, brand identities, marketing and growth strategies, financial strength and capabilities, level of amenities, management talent and geographic diversity. Many of our regional and national competitors have greater brand recognition and significantly greater resources than we have. Their greater resources may also provide them with the ability to expand operations in the future. Furthermore, several states are currently considering legalizing casino gaming in designated areas, and Native American tribes may develop or expand gaming properties in markets located more closely to our customer base (particularly Native American casinos located in California). The expansion of casino gaming in or near any geographic area from which we attract or expect to attract a significant number of our customers, including legalized casino gaming in neighboring states and on Native American land, could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. With respect to our distributed gaming businesses, we face direct competition from others involved in the distributed gaming business, as well as substantial competition for customers from other operators of casinos, hotels, taverns and other entertainment venues. Many of our regional and national competitors have greater brand recognition and significantly greater resources than we have. Their greater resources may also provide them with the ability to expand operations in the future. In addition, in both of our segments we face ever-increasing competition from online gaming, including mobile gaming applications for smart phones and tablet computers, state-sponsored lotteries, card clubs, sports books, fantasy sports websites and other forms of legalized gaming. Various forms of internet gaming have been approved in Nevada, and legislation permitting internet gaming has been proposed by the federal government and other states. The expansion of internet gaming in Nevada and other jurisdictions could result in significant additional competition for our operations. Regulation Gaming Regulation We are subject to extensive federal, state, and local regulation. State and local government authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate require us to obtain gaming licenses and require our officers, key employees and business entity affiliates to demonstrate suitability to be involved in gaming operations. These are privileged licenses or approvals which are not guaranteed by statute or regulation. State and local government authorities may limit, condition, suspend or revoke a license, impose substantial fines, and take other actions, any of which could have a 6 material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We cannot assure you that we will be a ble to obtain and maintain the gaming licenses and related approvals necessary to conduct our gaming operations. Any failure to maintain or renew our existing licenses, registrations, permits or approvals could have a material adverse effect on our busines s, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Furthermore, if additional gaming laws or regulations are adopted, these regulations could impose additional restrictions or costs that could have a significant adverse effect on us and our busin ess. For additional information, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to extensive gaming regulation, which is costly to comply with, and gaming authorities have significant control over our operations. Gaming authorities may, in their sole and absolute discretion, require the holder of any securities issued by us to file applications, be investigated, and be found suitable to own our securities if they have reason to believe that the security ownership would be inconsistent with the declared policies of their respective states. Further, the costs of any investigation conducted by any gaming authority under these circumstances is typically required to be paid by the applicant, and refusal or failure to pay these charges may constitute grounds for a finding that the applicant is unsuitable to own the securities. Our articles of incorporation require our shareholders to cooperate with gaming authorities in such investigations and permit us to redeem the securities held by any shareholder whose holding of shares of our capital stock may result, in the judgment of our Board of Directors, in our failure to obtain or our loss of any license or franchise from any governmental agency held by us to conduct any portion of our business. If any gaming authority determines that a person is unsuitable to own our securities, then, under the applicable gaming laws and regulations, we can be sanctioned, including the loss of our privileged licenses or approvals, if, without the prior approval of the applicable gaming authority, we conduct certain business with the unsuitable person. For additional information, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors Our shareholders are subject to extensive government regulation and, if a shareholder is found unsuitable by a gaming authority, that shareholder would not be able to beneficially own our common stock directly or indirectly. Our shareholders may also be required to provide information that is required by gaming authorities and we have the right, under certain circumstances, to redeem a shareholder securities; we may be forced to use our cash or incur debt to fund redemption of our securities. Our directors, officers and key employees are also subject to a variety of regulatory requirements and various privileged licensing and related approval procedures in the various jurisdictions in which we operate gaming facilities. If any gaming authority with jurisdiction over our business were to find any of our directors, officers or key employees unsuitable for licensing or unsuitable to continue having a relationship with us, we would have to sever our relationship with that person. Furthermore, such gaming authorities may require us to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file appropriate applications. Either result could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and prospects. Applicable gaming laws and regulations also restrict our ability to issue securities, incur debt, and undertake other financing activities. Such transactions would generally require approval of gaming authorities, and our financing counterparties, including lenders, might be subject to various licensing and related approval procedures in the various jurisdictions in which we operate gaming facilities. If state regulatory authorities were to find any person unsuitable with regard to his, her or its relationship to us or any of our subsidiaries, we would be required to sever our relationship with that person, which could materially adversely affect our business. The gaming industry also represents a significant source of tax revenue, particularly to the State of Nevada and its counties and municipalities. From time to time, various federal, state and local legislators and other government officials have proposed and adopted changes in tax laws, or in the administration or interpretation of such laws, affecting the gaming industry. It is not possible to determine the likelihood of possible changes in tax laws or in the administration or interpretation of such laws. Such changes, if adopted, could have a material adverse effect on our future financial position, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. For additional information, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors Changes to gaming tax laws could increase our cost of doing business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. From time to time, local and state lawmakers, as well as special interest groups, have proposed legislation that would expand, restrict or prevent gaming operations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Any such change to the 7 regulatory environment or the adoption of new federal, state or local government legislation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects . Other Regulation Our business is subject to a variety of other federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and ordinances. These laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages, environmental matters, employees, currency transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, and marketing and advertising. Such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. Changes to any of the laws, rules, regulations or ordinances to which we are subject, new laws or regulations, or material differences in interpretations by courts or governmental authorities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations relating to emissions and discharges into the environment, and the storage, handling and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous substances and wastes. These laws and regulations are complex, and subject to change, and violations can lead to significant costs for corrective action and remediation, fines and penalties. Under certain of these laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of property may be liable for the costs of remediating contamination on its property, without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or caused, the presence of the contaminants, and regardless of whether the practices that resulted in the contamination were legal at the time that they occurred, as well as incur liability to third parties impacted by such contamination. The presence of contamination, or failure to remediate it properly, may adversely affect our ability to use, sell or rent property. As we acquire additional casino, resort and tavern properties, such as the casino properties we acquired in the American Acquisition, we may not know the full level of exposure that we may have undertaken despite appropriate due diligence. We endeavor to maintain compliance with environmental laws, but from time to time, current or historical operations on or adjacent to, our properties may have resulted or may result in noncompliance with environmental laws or liability for cleanup pursuant to environmental laws. In that regard, we may incur costs for cleaning up contamination relating to historical uses of certain of our properties. Many of our employees, especially those that interact with our customers, receive a base salary or wage that is established by applicable state and federal laws that establish a minimum hourly wage that is, in turn, supplemented through tips and gratuities from customers. In February and April 2017, several former employees filed two separate purported class action lawsuits against us and on behalf of similarly situated individuals employed by us in Nevada. The lawsuits allege that we violated certain Nevada labor laws, including payment of an hourly wage below the statutory minimum wage without providing a qualified health insurance plan and an associated failure to pay proper overtime compensation. For additional information, please see Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading Legal Proceedings. From time to time, state and federal lawmakers have increased the minimum wage. It is difficult to predict when such increases may take place. Any such change to the minimum wage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The manufacture and sale of alcoholic beverages is a highly regulated and taxed business. Our brewery operations at PT Brewing Company in Las Vegas, Nevada require federal, state, and local licenses, permits and approvals. Our restaurant and on-site brewery at PT Brewing Company operate pursuant to exceptions to the tied house laws, which in Nevada generally prohibit a manufacturer or supplier of brewery products from engaging in the business of wholesaling and prevent a wholesaler from engaging, directly or indirectly, in retail sales. Our brewery operations are subject to more restrictive regulations and increased taxation by federal, state and local governmental entities than are those of non-alcohol related beverage businesses. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the production and distribution of beer, including permitting, licensing, trade practices, labeling, advertising, marketing, distributor relationships and related matters. Federal, state and local governmental entities also levy various taxes, license fees, and other similar charges and may require bonds to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Failure to comply with applicable federal, state or local laws and regulations could result in higher taxes, penalties, fees, and suspension or revocation of permits, licenses or approvals and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. From time to time, local and state lawmakers, as well as special interest groups, have proposed legislation that would increase the federal and/or state excise tax on alcoholic beverages or certain types of alcoholic beverages. If adopted, such measures could affect some or all of our proprietary craft beer production. If federal or state excise taxes are increased, we may have to raise prices to maintain our current profit margins. Higher taxes may reduce overall demand for beer, thus negatively impacting sales of our beer. Further federal 8 or state regulation may be forthcoming that could fu rther restrict the distribution and sale of alcohol products. Any material increase in taxes or fees, or the adoption of additional taxes or fees or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operatio ns and prospects. In addition, each restaurant we operate must obtain a food service license from local authorities. Failure to comply with such regulations could cause our licenses to be revoked or our related restaurant business or businesses to be forced to cease operations. Moreover, state liquor laws may prevent the expansion of restaurant operations into certain markets. Seasonality We believe that our Casinos and Distributed Gaming segments are affected by seasonal factors, including holidays, weather and travel conditions. Our casinos and distributed gaming businesses in Nevada have historically experienced lower revenues during the summer as a result of fewer tourists due to higher temperatures, as well as increased vacation activity by local residents. Rocky Gap typically experiences higher revenues during summer months and may be significantly adversely impacted by inclement weather during winter months. Our Nevada distributed gaming operations typically experience higher revenues during the fall which corresponds with several professional sports seasons. Our Montana distributed gaming operations typically experience higher revenues during the fall due to the inclement weather in the state and less opportunity for outdoor activities, in addition to the impact from professional sports seasons. While other factors like unemployment levels, market competition and the diversification of our business may either offset or magnify seasonal effects, some seasonality is likely to continue, which could result in significant fluctuation in our quarterly operating results. Employees As of December 31, 2018 we had approximately 6,940 employees, of which approximately 2,000 were covered by various collective bargaining agreements. Other unions may seek to organize the workers of our resort casino properties from time to time. We believe we have good relationships with our employees, including those represented by unions. At The Strat , four collective bargaining agreements cover our employees. Our collective bargaining agreement with the International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 501, AFL-CIO expired on March 31, 2018 and is currently under negotiation. Our collective bargaining agreements with the Professional, Clerical and Miscellaneous Employees, Teamsters Local Union 986 (Valet and Warehouse) expire on March 31, 2019. Our collective bargaining agreement with the Culinary Workers Union, Local 226 and Bartenders Union, Local 165 expires on May 31, 2023. At the Aquarius, four collective bargaining agreements cover our employees. Our collective bargaining agreement with the International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 501, AFL-CIO expires on March 31, 2020. Our collective bargaining agreement with the International Union of Security, Police, and Fire Professional of America expires on February 28, 2021. Our collective bargaining agreement with the United Steelworkers of America expires on March 31, 2021. Our collective bargaining agreement with the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees, Moving Picture Technicians, Artist and Allied Crafts of the United States, Its Territories and Canada, Local 720, Las Vegas, Nevada expires on November 30, 2022. At Rocky Gap, our collective bargaining agreement with the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, Local 27 expires on November 1, 2019. Website and Available Information Our website is located at www.goldenent.com . Through a link on the Investors section of our website, we make the following filings available free of charge and as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed or furnished with the SEC: our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. Copies of these documents are also available to our shareholders upon written request to our Chief Financial Officer at 6595 S Jones Boulevard, Las Vegas, Nevada 89118. Information on the website does not constitute part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These filings are also available free of charge on the SEC website at www.sec.gov . 9 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider each of the following factors as well as the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in evaluating our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially harmed and the trading price of our common stock could decline. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the information in Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Any failure to successfully integrate our businesses and businesses we acquire, including in the American Acquisition and Laughlin Acquisition, could materially adversely affect our business, and we may not realize the full benefits of the American Acquisition, the Laughlin Acquisition or our other strategic acquisitions. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of our strategic acquisitions, including our acquisitions of Nevada resort casino properties in January 2019 (in the Laughlin Acquisition) and the American Acquisition in October 2017, will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to successfully integrate our businesses with the businesses we acquire. Integrating and coordinating the operations and personnel of multiple businesses and managing the expansion in the scope of our operations and financial systems involves complex operational, technological and personnel-related challenges. The potential difficulties, and resulting costs and delays, relating to the integration of our business with our strategic acquisitions include: the difficulty in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and effective manner; the challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits expected from acquisitions; the diversion of management attention from day-to-day operations; additional demands on management related to the increased size and scope of our company following significant acquisitions, such as the American Acquisition and the Laughlin Acquisition; the assimilation of employees and the integration of different business cultures; challenges in attracting and retaining key personnel; the need to integrate information, accounting, finance, sales, billing, payroll and regulatory compliance systems; challenges in keeping existing customers and obtaining new customers; and challenges in combining product offerings and sales and marketing activities. There is no assurance that we will successfully or cost-effectively integrate our businesses with the businesses we acquire, and the costs of achieving systems integration may substantially exceed our current estimates. The integration of the recently acquired businesses in the American Acquisition and Laughlin Acquisition into our own operations in particular will be time consuming and presents financial, managerial and operational challenges. Issues that arise during this process may divert management attention away from our day-to-day operations, and any difficulties encountered in the integration process could cause internal disruption in general, which could adversely impact our relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies. Combining our different systems, technology, networks and business practices could be more difficult and time consuming than we anticipated, and could result in additional unanticipated expenses. Our combined results of operations could also be adversely affected by any issues we discover that were attributable to operations of American or the Laughlin Entities that arose before the acquisition. Moreover, as non-public companies at the time of our acquisition, the subsidiaries we acquired in the American Acquisition and the Laughlin Acquisition did not have to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for internal control over financial reporting and other procedures. Bringing the legacy systems for acquired businesses into compliance with those requirements may cause us to incur substantial additional expense. 10 In addition, the integration process may cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our combined business. If management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer and our results o f operations and financial condition may be harmed. Even if our businesses are successfully integrated, we may not realize the full benefits of the American Acquisition, the Laughlin Acquisition or our other strategic acquisitions, including anticipated sy nergies, cost savings or growth opportunities, within the expected timeframes or at all. In addition, we have incurred, and may incur additional, significant integration and restructuring expenses to realize synergies. However, many of the expenses that wi ll be incurred are, by their nature, difficult to estimate accurately. These expenses could, particularly in the near term, exceed the savings that we expect to achieve from elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale and cost savings. Although we expect that the realization of efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses may offset incremental transaction-related and restructuring costs over time, we cannot give any assurance that this net benefit will be achi eved in the near term, or at all. Any of these matters could materially adversely affect our businesses or harm our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our business may be adversely affected by economic conditions, acts of terrorism, natural disasters, severe weather, contagious diseases and other factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The demand for gaming, entertainment and leisure activities is highly sensitive to downturns in the economy and the corresponding impact on discretionary consumer spending. Any actual or perceived deterioration or weakness in general, regional or local economic conditions, unemployment levels, the job or housing markets, consumer debt levels or consumer confidence, as well as any increase in gasoline prices, tax rates, interest rates, inflation rates or other adverse economic or market conditions, may lead to our customers having less discretionary income to spend on gaming, entertainment and discretionary travel, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Acts of terrorism, natural disasters, severe weather conditions and actual or perceived outbreaks of public health threats and pandemics could also significantly affect demand for gaming, entertainment and leisure activities and discretionary travel, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Furthermore, our properties are subject to the risk that operations could be halted for a temporary or extended period of time, as a result of casualty, forces of nature, adverse weather conditions, flooding, mechanical failure, or extended or extraordinary maintenance, among other causes. If there is a prolonged disruption at any of our casino properties due to natural disasters, terrorist attacks or other catastrophic events, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, if extreme weather adversely impacts general economic or other conditions in the areas in which our properties are located or from which we draw our patrons or prevents patrons from easily coming to our properties, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. We face substantial competition in both of our business segments, and may lose market share. The resort casino and distributed gaming industries are highly competitive. Our resort casino business competes with numerous casinos and casino-hotels of varying quality and size in our markets. We also compete with other non-gaming resorts and vacation destinations, and with various other casino and other entertainment businesses. The casino entertainment business is characterized by competitors that vary considerably in their size, quality of facilities, number of operations, brand identities, marketing and growth strategies, financial strength and capabilities, level of amenities, management talent and geographic diversity. Many of our regional and national competitors have greater brand recognition and significantly greater resources than we have. Their greater resources may also provide them with the ability to expand operations in the future. If our competitors operate more successfully than we do, if they attract customers away from us as a result of aggressive pricing and promotion, if they are more successful than us in attracting and retaining employees, if their properties are enhanced or expanded, if they operate in jurisdictions that give them operating advantages due to differences or changes in gaming regulations or taxes, or if additional hotels and casinos are established in and around our markets, we may lose market share or the ability to attract or retain employees. Furthermore, several states are currently considering legalizing casino gaming in designated areas, and Native American tribes may develop or 11 expand gaming properties in markets located more closely to our customer base (particularly Native American casinos located in California). The expansion of casino gaming in or near any geographic area from which we attract or expect to attract a significant numb er of our customers, including legalized casino gaming in neighboring states and on Native American land, could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. With respect to our distributed gaming businesses, we face direct competition from others involved in the distributed gaming business, as well as substantial competition for customers from other operators of casinos, hotels, taverns and other entertainment venues. In addition, in both of our segments we face ever-increasing competition from online gaming, including mobile gaming applications for smart phones and tablet computers, state-sponsored lotteries, card clubs, sports books, fantasy sports websites and other forms of legalized gaming. Various forms of internet gaming have been approved in Nevada, and legislation permitting internet gaming has been proposed by the federal government and other states. The expansion of internet gaming in Nevada and other jurisdictions could result in significant additional competition for our operations. We incurred significant indebtedness in connection with our acquisitions and our significant indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. We incurred significant indebtedness in connection with the American Acquisition and the associated refinancing of our former senior secured credit facility. As of December 31, 2018, our senior secured indebtedness, excluding unamortized debt issuance costs, was $1.0 billion. Subsequent to fiscal year end, we borrowed $145.0 million under our revolving credit facility in connection with the closing of the Laughlin Acquisition on January 14, 2019. As a result of the increases in our outstanding debt, demands on our cash resources have increased. The increased level of debt could, among other things: require us to dedicate a larger portion of our cash flow from operations to the servicing and repayment of our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions, and other general corporate requirements; limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate; restrict our ability to make strategic acquisitions or dispositions or to exploit business opportunities; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and increases in interest rates; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and adversely affect our credit rating or the market price of our common stock. Any of these risks could impact our ability to fund our operations or limit our ability to expand our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may incur additional indebtedness, which could further increase the risks associated with our leverage. We may incur significant additional indebtedness in the future, which may include financing relating to capital expenditures, potential acquisitions or business expansion, working capital or general corporate purposes. Our senior secured credit facilities include a $200.0 million revolving credit facility, which was undrawn at December 31, 2018. Subsequent to fiscal year end, we borrowed $145.0 million under our revolving credit facility in connection with the closing of the Laughlin Acquisition on January 14, 2019. In addition, our senior secured credit facilities permit us, subject to specific limitations, to incur additional indebtedness. If new indebtedness is added to our current level of indebtedness, the related risks that we now face could intensify. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to service all of our indebtedness and fund our operating expenses, working capital needs and capital expenditures, and we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. 12 Our ability to make scheduled payments on or refinance our indebtedness will depend upon our future operating performance and our ability to generate cash flow in the futur e, which are subject to general economic, financial, business, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that future bor rowings will be available to us, in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or fund our other liquidity needs. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquid ity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investment and capital expenditures, dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to effect any such al ternative measures, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, such alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our senior secured credit facilities restrict our ability to dis pose of assets and use the proceeds from asset dispositions, and may also restrict our ability to raise debt or equity capital to repay or service our indebtedness. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result, o ur lenders could declare all outstanding amounts to be due and payable, terminate or suspend their commitments to loan money and foreclose against the assets securing such debt, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Covenants in our debt instruments restrict our business and could limit our ability to implement our business plan. Our senior secured credit facilities contain, and any future debt instruments likely will contain, covenants that may restrict our ability to implement our business plan, finance future operations, respond to changing business and economic conditions, secure additional financing, and engage in opportunistic transactions, such as strategic acquisitions. Our senior secured credit facilities include covenants restricting, among other things, our ability to do the following: incur, assume or guarantee additional indebtedness; issue redeemable stock and preferred stock; grant or incur liens; sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries; make loans and investments; pay dividends, make distributions, or redeem or repurchase capital stock; enter into transactions with affiliates; and consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person. In addition, our revolving credit facility contains a financial covenant applying a maximum net leverage ratio when borrowings under the facility exceed 30% of the total revolving commitment. Our senior secured credit facilities are secured by liens on substantially all of our and the subsidiary guarantors present and future assets (subject to certain exceptions). If we default under any of our senior secured credit facilities because of a covenant breach or otherwise, all outstanding amounts thereunder could become immediately due and payable. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with the covenants in our senior secured credit facilities or that any covenant violations will be waived. Any violation that is not waived could result in an event of default and, as a result, our lenders could declare all outstanding amounts to be due and payable, terminate or suspend their commitments to loan money and foreclose against the assets securing such debt, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. The borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities are subject to variable rates of interest, primarily based on London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ), and expose us to interest rate risk. LIBOR tends to fluctuate based on general economic conditions, general interest rates, Federal Reserve rates and the supply of and demand for credit in 13 the London interbank market. Increases in the interest rate generally, and particularly when coupled with any significant variable rate indebtedness, could materi ally adversely impact our interest expenses. If interest rates were to increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including c ash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease. Each quarter point change in interest rates would result in a $2.4 million change in annual interest expense on our indebtedness under our senior secured credit facilities. We are not required to enter into interest rate swaps to hedge such indebtedness. If we decide not to enter into hedges on such indebtedness, our interest expense on such indebtedness will fluctuate based on LIBOR or other variable interest rates. Consequently, we may have difficulties servicing such unhedged indebtedness and funding our other fixed costs, and our available cash flow for general corporate requirements may be materially adversely affected. In the future, we may enter into interest rate swaps that involve the exchange of floating for fixed rate interest payments in order to reduce interest rate volatility. However, we may not maintain interest rate swaps with respect to all of our variable rate indebtedness, and any swaps we enter into may not fully mitigate our interest rate risk. The casino, hotel and hospitality industry is capital intensive and we may not be able to finance development, expansion and renovation projects, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. Our casino and tavern properties have an ongoing need for renovations and other capital improvements to remain competitive, including room refurbishments, amenity upgrades, and replacement, from time to time, of furniture, fixtures and equipment. We may also need to make capital expenditures to comply with applicable laws and regulations. Construction projects entail significant risks, which can substantially increase costs or delay completion of a project. Such risks include shortages of materials or skilled labor, unforeseen engineering, environmental or geological problems, work stoppages, weather interference and unanticipated cost increases. Most of these factors are beyond our control. In addition, difficulties or delays in obtaining any of the requisite licenses, permits or authorizations from regulatory authorities can increase the cost or delay the completion of an expansion or development. Significant budget overruns or delays with respect to expansion and development projects could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Renovations and other capital improvements of casino properties in particular require significant capital expenditures. In addition, any such renovations and capital improvements usually generate little or no cash flow until the projects are completed. We may not be able to fund such projects solely from cash provided from operating activities. Consequently, we may have to rely upon the availability of debt or equity capital to fund renovations and capital improvements, and our ability to carry them out will be limited if we cannot obtain satisfactory debt or equity financing, which will depend on, among other things, market conditions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain additional equity or debt financing on favorable terms or at all. Our failure to renovate and maintain our casino and tavern properties from time to time may put us at a competitive disadvantage to casinos or taverns offering more modern and better maintained facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Changes to gaming tax laws could increase our cost of doing business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. The gaming industry represents a significant source of tax revenue, particularly to the State of Nevada and its counties and municipalities. Gaming companies are currently subject to significant state and local taxes and fees in addition to normal federal and state corporate income taxes, and such taxes and fees are subject to increase at any time. From time to time, various federal, state and local legislators and other government officials have proposed and adopted changes in tax laws, or in the administration or interpretation of such laws, affecting the gaming industry. In addition, any worsening of economic conditions and the large number of state and local governments with significant current or projected budget deficits could intensify the efforts of state and local governments to raise revenues through increases in gaming taxes and/or property taxes. It is not possible to determine with certainty the likelihood of changes in tax laws or in the administration or interpretation of such laws. Any material increase, or the adoption of additional taxes or fees, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our business is subject to extensive gaming regulation, which is costly to comply with, and gaming authorities have significant control over our operations. 14 We are subject to a variety of gaming regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including the extensive gaming laws and regulations of the State of Nevada. Compliance with these regulations is costly and time-consuming. Re gulatory authorities at the federal, state and local levels have broad powers with respect to the regulation and licensing of casino and gaming operations and may revoke, suspend, condition or limit our gaming or other licenses, impose substantial fines on us and take other actions, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain and maintain the gaming licenses and related ap provals necessary to conduct our gaming operations. Any failure to maintain or renew our existing licenses, registrations, permits or approvals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our directors, officers and key employees are also subject to a variety of regulatory requirements and must be approved by certain gaming authorities. If any gaming authority with jurisdiction over our business were to find an officer, director or key employee of ours unsuitable for licensing or unsuitable to continue having a relationship with us, we would be required to sever our relationship with that person. Furthermore, such gaming authorities may require us to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file appropriate applications. Either result could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and prospects. Applicable gaming laws and regulations also restrict our ability to issue securities, incur debt and undertake other financing activities. Such transactions would generally require approval of gaming authorities, and our financing counterparties, including lenders, might be subject to various licensing and related approval procedures in the various jurisdictions in which we operate gaming facilities. Further, our gaming regulators can require us to disassociate ourselves from suppliers or business partners found unsuitable by the regulators. If any gaming authorities were to find any person unsuitable with regard to his, her or its relationship to us or any of our subsidiaries, we would be required to sever our relationship with that person, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and prospects. If additional gaming regulations are adopted in a jurisdiction in which we operate, such regulations could impose restrictions on us that would prevent us from operating our business as it is currently operated, or the increased costs associated with compliance with such regulations could lower our profitability. From time to time, various proposals are introduced in the legislatures of the jurisdictions in which we have operations that, if enacted, could adversely affect the tax, regulatory, operational or other aspects of the gaming industry and our company. Any such change to the regulatory environment or the adoption of new federal, state or local government legislation could impose additional restrictions or costs or could otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Any violation of applicable anti-money laundering laws or regulations or the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We handle significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to various reporting and anti-money laundering laws and regulations. Recently, U.S. governmental authorities have evidenced an increased focus on compliance with anti-money laundering laws and regulations in the gaming industry. Any violation of anti-money laundering laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Internal control policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs that we have implemented to deter prohibited practices may not be effective in prohibiting our employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing our policies and the law. If we or our employees or agents fail to comply with applicable laws or our policies governing our operations, we may face investigations, prosecutions and other legal proceedings and actions which could result in civil penalties, administrative remedies and criminal sanctions. Any such government investigations, prosecutions or other legal proceedings or actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We are subject to numerous other federal, state and local laws that may expose us to liabilities or have a significant adverse impact on our operations. Changes to any such laws could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Our business is subject to a variety of other federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and ordinances. These laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages, 15 environmental matters, employees, currency transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes , and marketing and advertising. Such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. Changes to any of the laws, rules, regulations or ordinances to which we are subject, n ew laws or regulations, or material differences in interpretations by courts or governmental authorities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations relating to emissions and discharges into the environment, and the storage, handling and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous substances and wastes. These laws and regulations are complex, and subject to change, and violations can lead to significant costs for corrective action and remediation, fines and penalties. Under certain of these laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of property may be liable for the costs of remediating contamination on its property, without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or caused, the presence of the contaminants, and regardless of whether the practices that resulted in the contamination were legal at the time that they occurred, as well as incur liability to third parties impacted by such contamination. The presence of contamination, or failure to remediate it properly, may adversely affect our ability to use, sell or rent property. As we acquire additional casino, resort and tavern properties, such as the casino properties we acquired in the American Acquisition, we may not know the full level of exposure that we may have undertaken despite appropriate due diligence. We endeavor to maintain compliance with environmental laws, but from time to time, current or historical operations on or adjacent to, our properties may have resulted or may result in noncompliance with environmental laws or liability for cleanup pursuant to environmental laws. In that regard, we may incur costs for cleaning up contamination relating to historical uses of certain of our properties. Many of our employees, especially those that interact with our customers, receive a base salary or wage that is established by applicable state and federal laws that establish a minimum hourly wage that is, in turn, supplemented through tips and gratuities from customers. In February and April 2017, several former employees filed two separate purported class action lawsuits against us and on behalf of similarly situated individuals employed by us in Nevada. The lawsuits alleged that we violated certain Nevada labor laws, including payment of an hourly wage below the statutory minimum wage without providing a qualified health insurance plan and an associated failure to pay proper overtime compensation. For additional information, please see Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading Legal Proceedings. From time to time, state and federal lawmakers have increased the minimum wage. It is difficult to predict when such increases may take place. Any such change to the minimum wage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The manufacture and sale of alcoholic beverages is a highly regulated and taxed business. Our brewery operations at PT Brewing Company in Las Vegas, Nevada require federal, state, and local licenses, permits and approvals. Our restaurant and on-site brewery at PT Brewing Company operate pursuant to exceptions to the tied house laws, which in Nevada generally prohibit a manufacturer or supplier of brewery products from engaging in the business of wholesaling and prevent a wholesaler from engaging, directly or indirectly, in retail sales. Our brewery operations are subject to more restrictive regulations and increased taxation by federal, state and local governmental entities than are those of non-alcohol related beverage businesses. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the production and distribution of beer, including permitting, licensing, trade practices, labeling, advertising, marketing, distributor relationships and related matters. Federal, state and local governmental entities also levy various taxes, license fees, and other similar charges and may require bonds to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Failure to comply with applicable federal, state or local laws and regulations could result in higher taxes, penalties, fees, and suspension or revocation of permits, licenses or approvals and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. From time to time, local and state lawmakers, as well as special interest groups, have proposed legislation that would increase the federal and/or state excise tax on alcoholic beverages or certain types of alcoholic beverages. If adopted, such measures could affect some or all of our proprietary craft beer production. If federal or state excise taxes are increased, we may have to raise prices to maintain our current profit margins. Higher taxes may reduce overall demand for beer, thus negatively impacting sales of our beer. Further federal or state regulation may be forthcoming that could further restrict the distribution and sale of alcohol products. Any material increase in taxes or fees, or the adoption of additional taxes or fees or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 16 In addition, each restaurant we operate must obt ain a food service license from local authorities. Failure to comply with such regulations could cause our licenses to be revoked or our related restaurant business or businesses to be forced to cease operations. Moreover, state liquor laws may prevent the expansion of restaurant operations into certain markets. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that our properties could suffer. In addition, our insurance costs may increase and we may not be able to obtain the same insurance coverage in the future. Although we have comprehensive property and liability insurance policies for our properties in operation, with coverage features and insured limits that we believe are customary in their breadth and scope, each such policy has certain exclusions. Certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods or terrorist acts, or certain liabilities may be uninsurable or too expensive to justify obtaining insurance. Market forces beyond our control may also limit the scope of the insurance coverage we can obtain or our ability to obtain coverage at reasonable rates. As a result, we may not be successful in obtaining insurance without increases in cost or decreases in coverage levels. In addition, in the event of a major casualty, the insurance coverage we carry may not be sufficient to pay the full market value or replacement cost of our lost investment or in some cases could result in certain losses being totally uninsured. As a result, we could lose some or all of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property, and we could remain obligated for debt or other financial obligations related to the property, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition to the damage caused to our property by a casualty loss (such as fire, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism), we may suffer business disruption as a result of these events or be subject to claims by third parties injured or harmed. While we carry business interruption insurance and general liability insurance, this insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses in such event. We renew our insurance policies on an annual basis. The cost of coverage may become so high that we may need to reduce our policy limits or agree to certain exclusions from our coverage. Among other factors, it is possible that regional political tensions, homeland security concerns, other catastrophic events or any change in government legislation governing insurance coverage for acts of terrorism could materially adversely affect available insurance coverage and result in increased premiums on available coverage (which may cause us to elect to reduce our policy limits), additional exclusions from coverage or higher deductibles. Increasing prices or shortages of energy and water may increase our cost of operations. Our properties use significant amounts of water, electricity, natural gas and other forms of energy. Our Nevada properties in particular are located in a desert where water is scarce and the hot temperatures require heavy use of air conditioning. While we have not experienced any shortages of energy or water in the past, we cannot guarantee you that we will not in the future. Other states have suffered from electricity shortages. For example, California and Texas have experienced rolling blackouts due to excessive air conditioner use because of unexpectedly high temperatures in the past. We expect that potable water in Nevada, where the majority of our facilities are located, will become an increasingly scarce commodity at an increasing price. Work stoppages, labor problems and unexpected shutdowns may limit our operational flexibility and negatively impact our future profits. A number of employees at our casino properties are covered by collective bargaining agreements. These agreements have staggered expirations over the next several years. We cannot ensure that, upon the expiration of existing collective bargaining agreements, new agreements will be reached without union action or that any such new agreements will be on terms satisfactory to us. The inability to negotiate and enter into a new collective bargaining agreement on favorable terms could result in an increase in our operating expenses or covered employees could strike or engage in other collective behaviors. Any renegotiation of these and other labor agreements could significantly increase our costs for wages, healthcare, pension plans and other benefits, and could have a material adverse effect on the business of our casino properties and our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Any work stoppage at one or more of our casino properties could cause significant disruption of our operations or require us to expend significant funds to hire replacement workers, and qualified replacement labor may not be 17 available at reasonable costs, if at all. Strikes and work stoppages could also result in adverse media attention or otherwise discourage customers from visiting our casino properties. As a result, a strike or other work stoppage at one of our casino properties could have a material adverse effect on the business of our casino properties and our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Any unexpected shutdown of one of our casino properties could have an adverse effect on the business of our casino properties and our results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be adequately prepared for unexpected events, including political or regulatory actions, which may lead to a temporary or permanent shutdown of any of our casino properties. Our reputation and business could be materially harmed as a result of data breaches, data theft, unauthorized access or hacking. Our success depends, in part, on the secure and uninterrupted performance of our information technology and other systems and infrastructure, including systems to maintain and transmit customers personal and financial information, credit card settlements, credit card funds transmissions and mailing lists. We could encounter difficulties in developing new systems, maintaining and upgrading current systems and preventing security breaches. Among other things, our systems are susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, break-ins, cyber-attacks, network penetration, denial of service attacks and similar events. An increasing number of companies have disclosed breaches of their security, some of which have involved sophisticated and highly targeted attacks on their computer networks. While we have and will continue to implement network security measures and data protection safeguards, our servers and other computer systems are vulnerable to viruses, malicious software, hacking, break-ins or theft, data privacy or security breaches, third-party security breaches, employee error or malfeasance and similar events. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems, change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If unauthorized parties gain access to our information technology and other systems, they may be able to misappropriate assets or sensitive information (such as personally identifiable information of our customers, business partners and employees), cause interruption in our operations, corruption of data or computers, or otherwise damage our reputation and business. In such circumstances, we could be held liable to our customers or other parties, or be subject to regulatory or other actions for breaching privacy rules. Any compromise of our security could result in a loss of confidence in our security measures, and subject us to litigation, civil or criminal penalties, and negative publicity, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Further, if we are unable to comply with the security standards established by banks and the payment card industry, we may be subject to fines, restrictions, and expulsion from card acceptance programs, which could materially adversely affect our operations. Our revenues may be negatively impacted by volatility in our hold percentage, and we also face the risk of fraud or cheating. Casino revenue is recorded as the difference between gaming wins and losses or net win from gaming activities. Net win is impacted by variations in the hold percentage (the ratio of net win to total amount wagered), or actual outcome, on our slots, table games, race and sports betting, and all other games we provide to our customers. We use the hold percentage as an indicator of a game performance against its expected outcome. Although each game generally performs within a defined statistical range of outcomes, actual outcomes may vary for any given period. The hold percentage and actual outcome on our games can be impacted by the level of a customer skill in a given game, errors made by our employees, the number of games played, faults within the computer programs that operate our slots and the random nature of slot payouts. If our games perform below their expected range of outcomes, our cash flow may suffer. In addition, gaming customers may attempt or commit fraud or otherwise cheat in order to increase their winnings. Acts of fraud or cheating could involve the use of counterfeit chips or other tactics and could include collusion with our employees. Internal acts of cheating could also be conducted by employees through collusion with dealers, surveillance staff, floor managers or other casino or gaming area staff. Failure to discover such acts or schemes in a timely manner could result in losses in our gaming operations, which could be substantial. In addition, negative publicity related to such schemes could have an adverse effect on our reputation, thereby materially adversely affecting our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. 18 Our business is geographically concentrated, which subjects us to greater risks from changes in local or regional conditions. We currently operate casinos resort properties solely in Nevada and in Flintstone, Maryland, and conduct our distributed gaming (including gaming in our branded taverns) business solely in Nevada and Montana. Due to this geographic concentration, our results of operations and financial condition are subject to greater risks from changes in local and regional conditions, such as: changes in local or regional economic conditions and unemployment rates; changes in local and state laws and regulations, including gaming laws and regulations; a decline in the number of residents in or near, or visitors to, our properties; changes in the local or regional competitive environment; and adverse weather conditions and natural disasters (including weather or road conditions that limit access to our properties). Some of our casino properties and most of our tavern properties largely depend on the local markets for customers. Competition for local customers in Las Vegas in particular is intense. Local competitive risks and our failure to attract a sufficient number of guests, gaming customers and other visitors in these locations could adversely affect our business. In addition, the number of visitors to our Nevada casino properties may be adversely affected by increased transportation costs, the number and frequency of flights into or out of Las Vegas, and capacity constraints of the interstate highways that connect our casino properties with the metropolitan areas in which our customers reside. As a result of the geographic concentration of our businesses, we face a greater risk of a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects in the event that any of the geographic areas in which we operate is more severely impacted by any such adverse condition, as compared to other areas in the United States. We may experience seasonal fluctuations that could significantly impact our quarterly operating results. We may experience seasonal fluctuations that could significantly impact our quarterly operating results. Our casinos and distributed gaming businesses in Nevada have historically experienced lower revenues during the summer as a result of fewer tourists due to higher temperatures, as well as increased vacation activity by local residents. Rocky Gap typically experiences higher revenues during summer months and may be significantly adversely impacted by inclement weather during winter months. Our Nevada distributed gaming operations typically experience higher revenues during the fall which corresponds with several professional sports seasons. Our Montana distributed gaming operations typically experience higher revenues during the winter months due to the inclement weather in the state and less opportunity for outdoor activities, in addition to the impact from professional sports seasons. While other factors like unemployment levels, market competition and the diversification of our business may either offset or magnify seasonal effects, some seasonality is likely to continue, which could result in significant fluctuation in our quarterly operating results. Our success depends in part on our ability to acquire, enhance, and/or introduce successful gaming concepts and game content, and we may be unable to obtain slots or related technology from our third party suppliers on a timely, cost-effective basis. Our business is heavily dependent on revenue generated by the games, particularly slots, we offer to our customers. We source games and game content through third-party suppliers, and currently rely on a limited number of suppliers for our slots and related technology. We believe that creative and appealing game content, innovative game concepts and licensed brands produce more revenue for our casinos and other gaming locations and provide them with a competitive advantage, which in turn enhances our revenue and our ability to attract new business and to retain existing business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to sustain the acceptance of our existing game content or effectively obtain from third parties game content or licensed brands that will be widely accepted by our customers, or that we will be able to obtain slots or related technology on a cost-effective basis. There can be no assurance that our third party suppliers will be able to produce new creative and appealing game content, innovative game concepts, and licensed brands in the future that will be widely accepted by our customers. As a result, we may be forced to incur 19 significant unanticipated costs to secure alternative third party suppliers or adjust our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The success of our distributed gaming business is dependent on our ability to renew our contracts . We conduct the majority of our distributed gaming business under space, revenue share and participation contracts with third parties. Contracts with chain store and other third party customers are renewable at the option of the owner of the applicable chain store or third party. As our distributed gaming contracts expire, we are required to compete for renewals. If we are unable to renew a material portion of our space, revenue share and participation contracts, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We cannot assure you that our existing contracts will be renewed on reasonable or comparable terms, or at all. Our business and stock price may be adversely affected if our internal controls are not effective. We have previously reported material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the registrant annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Although we believe we have taken appropriate actions to remediate the control deficiencies we have identified and to strengthen our internal control over financial reporting, we cannot assure you that we will not discover other material weaknesses in the future. The existence of one or more internal control deficiencies could result in errors in our financial statements, and substantial costs and resources may be required to rectify internal control deficiencies. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly, we may be unable to obtain additional financing to operate and expand our business, and our business, financial condition and prospects could be harmed. We may be subject to litigation which, even if without merit, can be expensive to defend and could expose us to significant liabilities, damage our reputation and result in substantial losses. From time to time, we are involved in a variety of lawsuits, claims, investigations and other legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business, including proceedings concerning labor and employment matters, personal injury claims, breach of contract claims, commercial disputes, business practices, intellectual property, tax and other matters. See Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading Legal Proceedings for additional information. Certain litigation claims may not be covered entirely or at all by our insurance policies, or our insurance carriers may seek to deny coverage. In addition, litigation claims can be expensive to defend and may divert our attention from the operations of our businesses. Further, litigation involving visitors to our properties, even if without merit, can attract adverse media attention. We evaluate all litigation claims and legal proceedings to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and to estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses. Based on these assessments and estimates, we establish reserves and/or disclose the relevant litigation claims or legal proceedings, as appropriate. These assessments and estimates are based on the information available to management at the time and involve a significant amount of management judgment. We caution you that actual outcomes or losses may differ materially from those envisioned by our current assessments and estimates. As a result, litigation can have a significant adverse effect on our businesses and, because we cannot predict the outcome of any action, it is possible that adverse judgments or settlements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We depend on a limited number of key employees who would be difficult to replace. We depend on a limited number of key personnel to manage and operate our business, including our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Operating Officer and our Chief Strategy and Financial Officer. We believe our success depends to a significant degree on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. The competition for these types of personnel is intense and we compete with other potential employers for the services of our employees. As a result, we may not succeed in hiring and retaining the executives and other employees that we need. An inability to hire quality 20 employees or the loss of key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our executive officers and directors own or control a large percentage of our common stock, which permits them to exercise significant control over us. As of December 31, 2018, our executive officers and directors and entities affiliated with them owned, in the aggregate, approximately 33% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Accordingly, these shareholders will be able to substantially influence all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions and the composition of our Board of Directors. This concentration of ownership may also delay, defer or even prevent a change in control of our company and would make some transactions more difficult or impossible without their support. Circumstances may arise in which the interests of these shareholders could conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. Our shareholders are subject to extensive governmental regulation and, if a shareholder is found unsuitable by a gaming authority, that shareholder would not be able to beneficially own our common stock directly or indirectly. Our shareholders may also be required to provide information that is requested by gaming authorities and we have the right, under certain circumstances, to redeem a shareholder securities; we may be forced to use our cash or incur debt to fund redemption of our securities. Gaming authorities may, in their sole and absolute discretion, require the holder of any securities issued by us to file applications, be investigated, and be found suitable to own our securities if they have reason to believe that the security ownership would be inconsistent with the declared policies of their respective states. Gaming authorities have very broad discretion in determining whether an applicant should be deemed suitable. Subject to certain administrative proceeding requirements, gaming authorities have the authority to deny any application or limit, condition, restrict, revoke or suspend any license, registration, finding of suitability or approval, or fine any person licensed, registered or found suitable or approved, for any cause deemed reasonable by the gaming authorities. The applicant must pay all costs of investigation incurred by the gaming authorities in conducting any such investigation. In evaluating individual applicants, gaming authorities typically consider the individual reputation for good character and criminal and financial history, and the character of those with whom the individual associates. If any gaming authority determines that a person is unsuitable to own our securities, then, under the applicable gaming laws and regulations, we can be sanctioned, including the loss of our privileged licenses or approvals, if, without the prior approval of the applicable gaming authority, we conduct certain business with the unsuitable person or fail to redeem the unsuitable person interest in our securities or take such other action with respect to the securities held by the unsuitable person as the applicable gaming authority requires. For example, under Nevada gaming laws, each person who acquires, directly or indirectly, beneficial ownership of any voting security, or beneficial or record ownership of any non-voting security or any debt security, in a public corporation which is registered with the Nevada Gaming Commission, or the Gaming Commission, may be required to be found suitable if the Gaming Commission has reason to believe that his or her acquisition of that ownership, or his or her continued ownership in general, would be inconsistent with the declared public policy of Nevada, in the sole discretion of the Gaming Commission. Any person required by the Gaming Commission to be found suitable shall apply for a finding of suitability within 30 days after the Gaming Commission request that he or she should do so and, together with his or her application for suitability, deposit with the Nevada Gaming Control Board, or the Control Board, a sum of money which, in the sole discretion of the Control Board, will be adequate to pay the anticipated costs and charges incurred in the investigation and processing of that application for suitability, and deposit such additional sums as are required by the Control Board to pay final costs and charges. Furthermore, any person required by a gaming authority to be found suitable, who is found unsuitable by the gaming authority, may not hold directly or indirectly the beneficial ownership of any voting security or the beneficial or record ownership of any nonvoting security or any debt security of any public corporation which is registered with the gaming authority beyond the time prescribed by the gaming authority. A violation of the foregoing may constitute a criminal offense. A finding of unsuitability by a particular gaming authority impacts that person ability to associate or affiliate with gaming licensees in that particular jurisdiction and could impact the person ability to associate or affiliate with gaming licensees in other jurisdictions. 21 Many jurisdictions also require any person who acquires beneficial ownership of more than a certain percentage of voting securities of a gami ng company and, in some jurisdictions, non-voting securities, typically 5%, to report the acquisition to gaming authorities, and gaming authorities may require such holders to apply for qualification or a finding of suitability, subject to limited exceptio ns for institutional investors that hold a company voting securities for investment purposes only. For example, under Nevada gaming laws, any person who acquires more than 5% of our voting power must report the acquisition to the Gaming Commission. Nev ada gaming regulations also require that beneficial owners of more than 10% of our voting power apply to the Gaming Commission for a finding of suitability within 30 days after the Chairman of the Nevada Board mails written notice requiring such filing. Fu rther, an institutional investor, as defined in the Nevada gaming regulations, that acquires more than 10%, but not more than 25%, of our voting power may apply to the Gaming Commission for a waiver of such finding of suitability if such institutional in vestor holds our voting securities for investment purposes only. Similarly, under Maryland gaming laws, as interpreted by the Maryland Lottery and Gaming Control Commission, or the Maryland Commission, any person who acquires 5% or more of our voting secur ities must report the acquisition to the Maryland Commission and apply for a Principal Employee (if an individual) or Principal Entity (if an entity) license, both of which require a finding of qualification, or seek an institutional investor waiver. T he granting of a waiver rests with the discretion of the Maryland Commission. Further, we may not sell or otherwise transfer in an issuer transaction more than 5% of the legal or beneficial interest in Rocky Gap without the approval of the Maryland Commiss ion, after the Maryland Commission determines that the transferee is qualified or grants the transferee an institutional investor waiver. Our Articles of Incorporation require our shareholders to provide information that is requested by authorities that regulate our current or proposed gaming operations. Our Articles of Incorporation also permit us to redeem the securities held by persons whose status as a security holder, in the opinion of our Board of Directors, jeopardizes our existing gaming licenses or approvals. The price paid for these securities is, in general, the average closing price for the 30 trading days prior to giving notice of redemption. In the event a shareholder background or status jeopardizes our current or proposed gaming licensure, we may be required to redeem such shareholder securities in order to continue gaming operations or obtain a gaming license. This redemption may divert our cash resources from other productive uses and require us to obtain additional financing which, if in the form of equity financing, would be dilutive to our shareholders. Further, any debt financing may involve additional restrictive covenants and further leveraging of our fixed assets. The inability to obtain additional financing to redeem a disqualified shareholder securities may result in the loss of a current or potential gaming license. We expect our stock price to be volatile. The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile. The market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by many factors, including: changes in general or local economic or market conditions; quarterly variations in operating results; strategic developments by us or our competitors; developments in our relationships with our customers, distributors and suppliers; regulatory developments or any breach, revocation or loss of any gaming license; changes in our revenues, expense levels or profitability; changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; and failure to meet the expectations of securities analysts. Any of these events may cause the market price of our common stock to fall. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced significant volatility, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock regardless of our operating performance. Future sales of our common stock could lower our stock price and dilute existing shareholders. In January 2018, the SEC declared effective a universal shelf registration statement for the future sale of up to $150 million in aggregate amount of common stock, preferred stock, debt securities, warrants and units and the resale of up 22 to approximately 8.0 million shares of our common stock held by the selling securityholders named therein. The securities may be offered from time to time, separately or together, directly by us or through underwriters, dealers or agents at amo unts, prices, interest rates and other terms to be determined at the time of the offering. For example, in January 2018, certain of the named selling securityholders completed the resale of 6.5 million shares of our common stock and we completed the sale o f 975,000 newly issued shares of our common stock in an underwritten public offering pursuant to this shelf registration statement. We may also issue additional shares of common stock to finance future acquisitions through the use of equity. For example, we issued approximately 900,000 shares of our common stock in connection with the Laughlin Acquisition in January 2019, approximately 4.0 million shares of our common stock in connection with the American Acquisition in October 2017 (all of which shares were resold in the secondary public offering in January 2018), and approximately 8.5 million shares of our common stock in connection with the acquisition of Sartini Gaming in July 2015 (of which approximately 1.0 million shares were resold in the secondary public offering in January 2018). In addition, a substantial number of shares of our common stock is reserved for issuance upon the exercise of stock options and other equity awards pursuant to our employee benefit plans. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future sales and issuances of shares of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares issued in connection with the acquisition of Sartini Gaming, upon the exercise of stock options and warrants or in connection with acquisition financing), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. In addition, these sales may be dilutive to existing shareholders. Provisions in our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws or our senior secured credit facilities may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control or prevent an acquisition of our business at a premium price. Some of the provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and our Bylaws and Minnesota law could discourage, delay or prevent an acquisition of our business, even if a change in control would be beneficial to the interests of our shareholders and was made at a premium price. These provisions: permit our Board of Directors to increase its own size and fill the resulting vacancies; authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock that our Board of Directors could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares to discourage a takeover attempt; and permit shareholder action by written consent only if the consent is signed by all shareholders entitled to notice of a meeting. Although we have amended our Bylaws to provide that Section 302A.671 (Control Share Acquisitions) of the Minnesota Business Corporation Act does not apply to or govern us, we remain subject to 302A.673 (Business Combinations) of the Minnesota Business Corporation Act, which generally prohibits us from engaging in business combinations with any interested shareholder for a period of four years following the shareholder share acquisition date, which may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. In addition, our senior secured credit facilities provide for an event of default upon the occurrence of certain specified change of control events. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Company Headquarters We lease a 41,000 square foot building in Las Vegas, Nevada, which houses our company headquarters and a portion of which we have sub-leased. The lease for our office headquarters building is with a related party and expires on 23 December 31, 2030. See Note 15, Related Party Transactions , in the accompanying consolidated fin ancial statements for information on our transactions with related parties. Casinos The Strat : We own the approximately 34 acres of land on which The Strat is located (of which approximately 17 acres are undeveloped and reserved for future development) . Arizona Charlie Decatur: We own the approximately 17 acres of land on which our Arizona Charlie Decatur casino property is located. In addition, we lease office, storage and laundry space for our Arizona Charlie Decatur casino property in an adjacent shopping center. The lease is with an unrelated party and expires in 2097. Arizona Charlie Boulder: We own the approximately 24 acres of land on which our Arizona Charlie Boulder casino property is located. Laughlin Casinos: We own the approximately 18 acres of land on which the Aquarius casino property is located (of which approximately 1.6 acres are undeveloped and reserved for future development) , approximately 22 acres of land on which the Colorado Belle casino property is located and approximately 16 acres of land on which the Edgewater casino property is located. In addition, we lease approximately 20 acres of land for the Laughlin Event Center for our Laughlin casino properties. The lease is with an unrelated party and expires in 2027. Pahrump Casinos: We own the approximately 40 acres of land on which Pahrump Nugget is located (of which approximately 20 acres are undeveloped and reserved for future development) and the approximately 35 acres of land on which our Lakeside Casino & RV Park is located. Our Gold Town Casino is located on four leased parcels of land, comprising approximately nine acres in the aggregate. The leases are with unrelated third parties and have various expiration dates beginning in 2026 (for the parcel on which our main casino building is located, which we lease from a competitor), and we sublease approximately two of the acres to an unrelated third party. Rocky Gap: We lease the approximately 270 acres in the Rocky Gap State Park on which Rocky Gap is situated from the Maryland DNR pursuant to a 40-year ground lease. The lease expires in 2052, with an option to renew for an additional 20 years. We own the 170,000 square foot Rocky Gap building. All of our owned and leased real property for our casino properties, along with substantially all of the assets of the casino properties, are subject to liens securing all of our obligations under our senior secured credit facilities (subject to receipt of certain approvals). Distributed Gaming We lease our 60 branded tavern locations under non-cancelable operating leases. As of December 31, 2018, the terms of our tavern leases ranged from one to 15 years, with various renewal options from one to 15 years. One of our tavern locations was leased from related parties as of December 31, 2018. See Note 15, Related Party Transactions , in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for information on our transactions with related parties. 24 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS From time to time, we are involved in a variety of lawsuits, claims, investigations and other legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business, including proceedings concerning labor and employment matters, personal injury claims, breach of contract claims, commercial disputes, business practices, intellectual property, tax and other matters for which we recorded reserves of $1.7 million for claims as of December 31, 2018. Although lawsuits, claims, investigations and other legal proceedings are inherently uncertain and their results cannot be predicted with certainty, we believe that the resolution of our currently pending matters should not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Regardless of the outcome, legal proceedings can have an adverse impact on us because of defense costs, diversion of management resources and other factors. In addition, it is possible that an unfavorable resolution of one or more such proceedings could in the future materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity in a particular period. In February and April 2017, several former employees filed two separate purported class action lawsuits against us in the District Court of Clark County, Nevada, and on behalf of similarly situated individuals employed by us in the State of Nevada. The lawsuits allege that we violated certain Nevada labor laws including payment of an hourly wage below the statutory minimum wage without providing a qualified health insurance plan and an associated failure to pay proper overtime compensation. The complaints seek, on behalf of the plaintiffs and members of the putative class, an unspecified amount of damages (including punitive damages), injunctive and equitable relief, and an award of attorneys fees, interest and costs. We agreed to settle the first of these cases in the fourth quarter of 2017 and the second of these cases in the third quarter of 2018. In February 2019, the court approved the settlement for the first case for $0.5 million. The remaining case remains subject to final court approval, with the final fairness hearing scheduled for June 2019. Both were included in our recorded reserves of $1.7 million at December 31, 2018. On August 31, 2018, prior guests of The Strat filed a purported class action complaint against us in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada, on behalf of similarly situated individuals and entities that paid the Clark County Combined Transient Lodging Tax ( Tax ) on the portion of a resort fee that constitutes charges for Internet access, during the period of February 6, 2014 through the date the alleged conduct ceases. The lawsuit alleged that the Tax was charged in violation of the federal Internet Tax Freedom Act, which imposed a national moratorium on the taxation of Internet access by states and their political subdivisions, and sought, on behalf of the plaintiff and the putative class, damages equal to the amount of the Tax collected on the Internet access component of the resort fee, injunctive relief, disgorgement, interest, fees and costs. All defendants to this matter, including Golden Entertainment, Inc., filed a joint motion to dismiss this matter for lack of merit. The District Court granted this joint motion to dismiss on February 21, 2019. At this time this matter is closed. The plaintiffs have the right to appeal. While legal proceedings are inherently unpredictable and no assurance can be given as to the ultimate outcome of any of the above matters, based on management current understanding of the relevant facts and circumstances, we believe that these proceedings should not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 25 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global Market under the ticker symbol GDEN. As of March 14, 2019, there were approximately 240 shareholders of record of our common stock. Dividends Other than the special cash dividend that was made in July 2016 pursuant to the terms of the Sartini Gaming merger agreement (as described in Note 4, Acquisitions, in the accompanying consolidated financial statements), we have neither declared nor paid any cash dividends with respect to our common stock and the current policy of our Board of Directors is to retain all future earnings, if any, for use in the operation and development of our business. The payment of any other cash dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon such factors as our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, our general business condition, restrictions under our senior secured credit facilities and any other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. Share Repurchase Program On November 7, 2018, our Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase up to $25.0 million shares of common stock, subject to available liquidity, general market and economic conditions, alternate uses for the capital and other factors. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we repurchased approximately 1.2 million shares of our common stock in open market transactions for approximately $19.6 million at an average price of $16.06 per share. As of December 31, 2018, approximately $5.4 million of shares of common stock remained available for repurchase pursuant to this program. On March 12, 2019, our Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase up to $25.0 million additional shares of common stock, subject to available liquidity, general market and economic conditions, alternate uses for the capital and other factors, which replaces the November 2018 share repurchase program. Share repurchases may be made from time to time in open market transactions, block trades or in private transactions in accordance with applicable securities laws and regulations and other legal requirements, including compliance with our finance agreements. There is no minimum number of shares that we are required to repurchase and the repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time without prior notice. During the quarter ended December 31, 2018, we repurchased approximately 1.2 million shares of our common stock in open market transactions for approximately $19.6 million at an average price of $16.06 per share, as set forth below. Total Number of Average Price Total Number of Shares Purchased as Approximate Dollar Value That May Period Shares Purchased Paid Per Share Part of a Publicly Announced Plan Yet Be Purchased Under the Plan $ 25,000,000 October 1, 2018 through October 31, 2018 November 1, 2018 through November 30, 2018 1,023,014 $ 15.82 1,023,014 8,820,797 December 1, 2018 through December 31, 2018 195,966 $ 17.44 195,966 5,402,419 Totals 1,218,980 1,218,980 $ 5,402,419 26 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The Selected Financial Data presented below should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Selected consolidated statement of operations data and consolidated balance sheet data are derived from our consolidated financial statements. For the Year Ended or As of: December 31, December 31, December 31, December 31, December 28, 2018 (1) 2017 (2)(3) 2016 (2)(4) 2015 (5) 2014 (6) (In millions, except per share amounts) Results of Continuing Operations: Total revenues $ 852 $ 507 $ 400 $ 176 $ 55 Income (loss) from operations $ 51 $ 15 $ 13 $ 18 $ (24 ) Net Income (loss) $ (21 ) $ 2 $ 16 $ 25 $ (25 ) Net income (loss) per share basic $ (0.76 ) $ 0.09 $ 0.74 $ 1.45 $ (1.86 ) Net income (loss) per share diluted $ (0.76 ) $ 0.08 $ 0.73 $ 1.43 $ (1.86 ) Balance Sheet: Cash and cash equivalents $ 116 $ 91 $ 47 $ 69 $ 35 Total assets $ 1,367 $ 1,365 $ 419 $ 379 $ 122 Total long-term liabilities $ 968 $ 966 $ 172 $ 143 $ 9 Shareholders equity $ 315 $ 320 $ 209 $ 210 $ 108 (1) Our results for the year ended December 31, 2018 included the operating results of American for a full year. We recorded approximately $411.4 million in revenues and $42.7 million in net income from the operations of American for the year ended December 31, 2018. Income from operations for the year ended December 31, 2018 included approximately $1.2 million in preopening expenses primarily related to the opening of new taverns in the Las Vegas Valley and $3.0 million in acquisition expenses primarily related to the Laughlin Acquisition. Net loss for the year ended December 31, 2018 included an income tax provision of $9.6 million, which resulted primarily from the change in valuation allowance. (2) Selected financial data as of and for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 have been retrospectively adjusted for the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Selected financial data as of and for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 have not been adjusted and therefore are not comparable. (3) Our results for the year ended December 31, 2017 included the operating results of American from the closing date of the American Acquisition, on October 20, 2017. We recorded approximately $76.3 million in revenues and $5.5 million in net income from the operations of American for the year ended December 31, 2017. Income from operations for the year ended December 31, 2017 included approximately $1.6 million in preopening expenses related to American and the non-capital costs associated with the opening of taverns, and $5.0 million in acquisition expenses related to the American Acquisition. Net income for the year ended December 31, 2017 included an income tax benefit of $7.9 million attributed primarily to a partial release of the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets and the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. (4) Our results for the year ended December 31, 2016 included the operating results of the distributed gaming businesses acquired in the Montana Acquisitions from the closing dates of the respective transactions. We recorded approximately $45.4 million in revenues and $1.6 million in net income from the operations of the Montana distributed gaming businesses for the year ended December 31, 2016. Income from operations for the year ended December 31, 2016 included approximately $2.5 million in preopening expenses related to the Montana distributed gaming businesses and the non-capital costs associated with the opening of taverns , and a gain on sale of land held for sale of $4.5 million. Net income for the year ended December 31, 2016 included an income tax benefit of $4.3 27 million attributed primarily to a partial release of the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets . On July 14, 2016, a special cash dividend of approx imately $23.5 million was paid to shareholders (other than shareholders that had waived their right to receive such dividend in connection with the Sartini Gaming merger). See Note 4, Acquisitions, in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information. (5) Our results for the year ended December 31, 2015 included the operating results of Sartini Gaming from the Sartini Gaming merger on August 1, 2015. We recorded approximately $116.8 million in revenues and $10.4 million in net income from the operations of Sartini Gaming distributed gaming and casino businesses for the year ended December 31, 2015. Income from operations for the year ended December 31, 2015 included approximately $11.5 million in transaction-related expenses related to the Sartini Gaming merger and net income included income tax benefit of approximately $10.0 million attributed primarily to the income tax benefit recorded from the release of a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets as a result of deferred tax liabilities assumed in the Sartini Gaming merger. Our results for the year ended December 31, 2015 also reflected a gain of $23.6 million related to the disposition of our $60.0 million subordinated promissory note from the Jamul Indian Village to a subsidiary of Penn National Gaming, Inc. in December 2015. (6) Our results for the year ended December 28, 2014 reflected an impairment loss of $21.0 million related to the write-down of our then investment in Rock Ohio Ventures, LLC, a cost method investee. 28 IT EM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto and other financial information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition to the historical information, certain statements in this discussion are forward-looking statements based on current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results and the timing of certain events may differ significantly from those projected in such forward-looking statements. See Forward-Looking Statements in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding forward-looking statements. Overview We own and operate a diversified entertainment platform, consisting of a portfolio of gaming assets that focus on resort casino operations and distributed gaming (including gaming in our branded taverns). We conduct our business through two reportable operating segments: Casinos and Distributed Gaming. In our Casinos segment, we own and operate ten resort casino properties in Nevada and Maryland. Our Distributed Gaming segment involves the installation, maintenance and operation of slots and amusement devices in non-casino locations such as restaurants, bars, taverns, convenience stores, liquor stores and grocery stores in Nevada and Montana, and the operation of branded taverns targeting local patrons located primarily in the greater Las Vegas, Nevada metropolitan area. Casinos On January 14, 2019, we completed the acquisition of all of the outstanding equity interests of the Laughlin Entities from Marnell for $155.0 million in cash (subject to the post-closing adjustment provisions in the purchase agreement) and the issuance by us of 911,002 shares of our common stock to certain assignees of Marnell. The Laughlin Acquisition added two resort casino properties in Laughlin, Nevada to our casino portfolio: the Edgewater and the Colorado Belle, which increase our scale and presence in the Southern Nevada market. The results of operations of the Laughlin Entities will be included in our results subsequent to the acquisition date. See Note 4, Acquisitions , in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information. On October 20, 2017, we completed the acquisition of all of the outstanding equity interests of American for $787.6 million in cash (after giving effect to post-closing adjustments) and the issuance by us of approximately 4.0 million shares of our common stock to a former American equity holder. The American Acquisition added four Nevada resort casino properties to our casino portfolio, including The Strat in Las Vegas. The results of operations of American and its subsidiaries have been included in our results subsequent to that date. See Note 4, Acquisitions , in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information. We own and operate ten resort casino properties in Nevada and Maryland, comprising: (1) The Strat, Arizona Charlie Decatur and Arizona Charlie Boulder in Las Vegas, Nevada, (2) the Aquarius, the Edgewater and the Colorado Belle in Laughlin, Nevada, (3) Pahrump Nugget, Gold Town Casino and Lakeside Casino & RV Park in Pahrump, Nevada, and (4) Rocky Gap in Flintstone, Maryland. The Strat : The Strat is our premier casino property, located on Las Vegas Blvd on the north end of the Las Vegas Strip. The Strat comprises The Strat SkyPod, a casino, a hotel and a retail center. As of December 31, 2018, The Strat featured an 80,000 sq. ft. casino, 2,429 hotel rooms, 686 slots, 48 table games, a race and sports book, 11 restaurants, two rooftop pools, a fitness center, retail shops and entertainment facilities. Arizona Charlie casinos : Our Arizona Charlie Decatur and Arizona Charlie Boulder casino properties primarily serve local Las Vegas patrons, and provide an alternative experience to the Las Vegas Strip. As of December 31, 2018, Arizona Charlie Decatur casino offered 259 hotel rooms, 1,032 slots, seven table games, race and sports books, five restaurants, and an approximately 400-seat bingo parlor, and Arizona Charlie Boulder casino offered 303 hotel rooms, 823 slots, seven table games, race and sports books, four restaurants, and an approximately 450-seat bingo parlor, as well as an RV park with approximately 220 RV hook-up sites. 29 Laughlin casinos : We own and operate three casinos in Laughlin, Nevada, which is located approximately 90 miles from Las Vegas on the western riverbank of the Colorado River. Our La ughlin casinos are situated on 56 contiguous acres along the heart of the Laughlin Riverwalk and cater primarily to patrons traveling from Arizona and Southern California, as well as customers from Nevada seeking an alternative to the Las Vegas experience. The Aquarius is the largest resort casino property by number of hotel rooms in the Laughlin, Nevada market. As of December 31, 2018, the Aquarius had 1,906 hotel rooms, 1,217 slots, 33 table games and eight restaurants. As of January 14, 2019 (the date we acquired the Colorado Belle and the Edgewater in the Laughlin Acquisition), the Edgewater and the Colorado Belle collectively featured over 1,400 slots, 39 table games and 2,149 hotel rooms, as well as ten restaurants and dedicated entertainment venues, i ncluding the Laughlin Event Center. Pahrump casinos : We own and operate three casinos in Pahrump, Nevada, which is located approximately 60 miles from Las Vegas and is a gateway to Death Valley National Park. As of December 31, 2018, Pahrump Nugget offered 69 hotel rooms, 399 slots, ten table games, a race and sports book, an approximately 200-seat bingo facility and a bowling center. As of December 31, 2018, our Gold Town Casino offered 224 slots and an approximately 100-seat bingo facility, and our Lakeside Casino & RV Park offered 173 slots and approximately 160 RV hook-up sites Rocky Gap : Rocky Gap is situated on approximately 270 acres in the Rocky Gap State Park in Maryland, which we lease from the Maryland Department of Natural Resources under a 40-year ground lease expiring in 2052 (plus a 20-year option renewal). As of December 31, 2018, Rocky Gap offered 665 slots, 17 table games, two casino bars, three restaurants, a spa and the only Jack Nicklaus signature golf course in Maryland. Rocky Gap is a AAA Four Diamond Award winning resort with 198 hotel rooms, as well as an event and conference center. Distributed Gaming Our Distributed Gaming segment involves the installation, maintenance and operation of slots and amusement devices in non-casino locations such as restaurants, bars, taverns, convenience stores, liquor stores and grocery stores in Nevada and Montana. We place our slots and amusement devices in locations where we believe they will receive maximum customer traffic, generally near a store entrance. In addition, we own and operate branded taverns with slots, which target local patrons, primarily in the greater Las Vegas, Nevada metropolitan area. As of December 31, 2018, our distributed gaming operations comprised approximately 10,700 slots in over 1,000 locations. Our branded taverns offer a casual, upscale environment catering to local patrons offering superior food, craft beer and other alcoholic beverages, and typically include 15 onsite slots. As of December 31, 2018, we owned and operated 60 branded taverns, which offered a total of over 950 onsite slots. Most of our taverns are located in the greater Las Vegas, Nevada metropolitan area and cater to local patrons seeking more convenient entertainment establishments than traditional casino properties. Our tavern brands include PT Gold, PT Pub, Sierra Gold, Sean Patrick s, PT Place, PT Ranch, PT Brewing Company, Sierra Junction and SG Bar. We also own a brewery in Las Vegas, PT Brewing Company, which produces craft beer for our taverns and casinos. 30 Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. Year Ended December 31, (In thousands) 2018 2017 2016 Revenues by segment Casinos $ 513,949 $ 179,049 $ 97,086 Distributed Gaming 337,067 327,506 302,632 Corporate and other 778 583 280 Total revenues 851,794 507,138 399,998 Operating expenses by segment Casinos 247,042 90,037 51,685 Distributed Gaming 263,953 255,621 237,262 Corporate and other 3,237 641 11 Total operating expenses 514,232 346,299 288,958 Selling, general and administrative 183,892 98,382 66,323 Depreciation and amortization 94,456 40,786 27,506 Acquisition and merger expenses 2,956 5,041 614 Preopening expenses 1,171 1,632 2,471 Executive severance and sign-on bonuses 784 1,142 1,037 Gain on contingent consideration (1,719 ) Loss on disposal of property and equipment 3,336 441 54 Other operating, net (157 ) Total expenses 800,827 491,847 386,963 Operating income 50,967 15,291 13,035 Non-operating expense, net (62,242 ) (21,128 ) (1,060 ) Income tax benefit (provision) (9,639 ) 7,921 4,325 Net income (loss) $ (20,914 ) $ 2,084 $ 16,300 Year Ended December 31, 2018 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2017 Revenues The $344.7 million, or 68%, increase in revenues resulted primarily from increases of $143.8 million, $89.1 million, $82.6 million and $29.1 million in gaming, food and beverage, room and other revenues, respectively, due primarily to the inclusion in 2018 of a full year of revenues from the resort casino properties acquired in the American Acquisition which was consummated in October 2017. The $334.9 million, or 187%, increase in revenues related to our Casinos segment compared to the prior year resulted primarily from increases of $137.5 million, $85.3 million, $82.6 million and $29.5 million in gaming, food and beverage, room and other revenues, respectively, due primarily to the inclusion in 2018 of a full year of revenues from the resort casino properties acquired in the American Acquisition. The $9.6 million, or 3%, increase in revenues related to our Distributed Gaming segment resulted primarily from increases of $6.3 million in gaming revenues and $3.9 million in food and beverage revenues, reflecting the opening of three new taverns in the Las Vegas Valley in 2018 as well as a full year of revenues from the five taverns opened in 2017, and was offset by a $0.6 million decrease in other operating revenues. During the year ended December 31, 2018, Adjusted EBITDA in our Casinos segment as a percentage of segment revenues (or Adjusted EBITDA margin) was 31%, compared to Adjusted EBITDA margin in our Distributed Gaming segment of 14%. The lower Adjusted EBITDA margin in our Distributed Gaming segment relative to our Casinos 31 segment reflects the fixed and variable amounts paid to third parties under our space and revenue share agreements as expenses in the Di stributed Gaming segment (which includes the percentage of gaming revenues paid to third parties under revenue share agreements). See Note 16, Segment Information , in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding egment Adjusted EBITDA and a reconciliation of segment Adjusted EBITDA to segment net income (loss). Operating Expenses The $167.9 million, or 48%, increase in operating expenses compared to the prior year resulted primarily from $52.1 million, $68.9 million, $38.8 million and $8.2 million increases in gaming, food and beverage, room and other expenses, respectively, due primarily to the inclusion in 2018 of a full year of operating expenses relating to the resort casino properties acquired in the American Acquisition. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses The $85.5 million, or 87%, increase in selling, general and administrative ( SG&A ) expenses compared to the prior year resulted primarily from the inclusion in 2018 of a full year of SG&A expenses relating to the resort casino properties acquired in the American Acquisition. Within our Casinos segment, SG&A expenses increased $70.5 million, or 185%, resulting primarily from the inclusion in 2018 of a full year of SG&A relating to the resort casino properties acquired in the American Acquisition. The majority of the SG&A expenses in this segment comprised labor costs, marketing and advertising, utilities expenses, repairs and maintenance, property taxes. Within our Distributed Gaming segment, SG&A expenses increased $2.7 million or 12%, primarily due to the opening of three new taverns in the Las Vegas Valley in 2018 as well as a full year of revenues from the five taverns opened in 2017. The majority of SG&A expenses in this segment comprised payroll and payroll taxes, marketing, building and rent expense, insurance and property taxes. Corporate-level SG&A expenses increased $12.3 million, or 33% compared to the prior year, primarily from the inclusion in 2018 of a full year of SG&A expenses relating to the resort casino properties acquired in the American Acquisition. Acquisition Expenses Acquisition expenses during the year ended December 31, 2018 related primarily to the Laughlin Acquisition, which closed on January 14, 2019, and the American Acquisition. During the prior year, acquisition expenses primarily related to the American Acquisition. Preopening Expenses Preopening expenses consist of labor, food, utilities, training, initial licensing, rent and organizational costs incurred. Non-capital costs associated with the opening of tavern and casino locations are also expensed as preopening expenses as incurred. During 2018 and 2017, preopening expenses related primarily to costs incurred in the opening of new taverns in the Las Vegas Valley. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expenses increased $53.7 million, or 132%, compared to the prior year, primarily due to the depreciation of the assets and the amortization of the intangibles acquired in the American Acquisition. 32 Non-Operating Expense, Net Non-operating expense, net increased $41.1 million compared to the prior year, primarily due to a $44.4 million increase in interest expense from the higher level of indebtedness under our senior secured credit facilities following the consummation of the American Acquisition, partially offset by an increase in gain on change in fair value of derivative of $1.6 million. Non-operating expense, net in 2017 also included $1.7 million related to a loss on extinguishment of debt. Income Taxes Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2018 was approximately $9.6 million, which resulted primarily from the change in valuation allowance. Income tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2017 was approximately $7.9 million, attributable primarily to a partial release of the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets and the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The effective tax rate was (85.5%) for the year ended December 31, 2018, which differed from the federal tax rate of 21% due primarily to the change in valuation allowance. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2017 was 137.8%, which differed from the federal tax rate of 35% due primarily to the partial release of the valuation allowance, along with the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. As of December 31, 2018, we evaluated all available positive and negative evidence related to our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets. We considered the expected future taxable income (and losses) and deductions from existing deferred tax assets and liabilities, net operating loss carryforwards, tax credit carryforwards, and other factors in reaching the conclusion that the deferred tax assets are not currently expected to be realized, and that therefore, the valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets required adjustment. Year Ended December 31, 2017 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2016 Revenues The $107.1 million, or 27%, increase in revenues resulted primarily from increases of $56.5 million and $25.5 million in gaming revenues and food and beverage revenues, respectively, as well as the inclusion of revenues of American from October 20, 2017. The $82.0 million, or 84%, increase in revenues related to our Casinos segment resulted primarily from increases of $39.1 million, $19.6 million, $16.6 million and $6.6 million in gaming, food and beverage, room and other revenues, respectively, as well as the inclusion of revenues from the resort casino properties we acquired in the American Acquisition from October 20, 2017. Additionally, revenues from Rocky Gap increased $3.9 million due to greater parking capacity to accommodate peak demand days and marketing enhancements that better cater to our gaming customers. The $24.9 million, or 8%, increase in revenues related to our Distributed Gaming segment resulted primarily from five new taverns in the Las Vegas Valley during 2017, as well as a full year of revenues from the five taverns we opened in 2016. Additionally, revenues in 2017 included a full year of revenues from the Montana distributed gaming businesses we acquired in January and April 2016. Operating Expenses The $57.3 million, or 20%, increase in operating expenses resulted primarily from increases of $24.0 million, $23.9 million and $8.2 million in gaming expenses, food and beverage expenses and room expenses, respectively, the inclusion of a full year of operating expense from the Montana distributed gaming businesses we acquired in January and April 2016, as well as operating expenses related to the resort casino properties acquired in the American Acquisition on October 20, 2017. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses The $32.1 million, or 48%, increase in selling, general and administrative ( SG&A ) expenses resulted primarily from increases in share-based compensation ($5.1 million and $3.6 million related to stock options and restricted stock 33 units, respectively), salaries and bonus ($3.3 million), marketing and advertising ($0.9 million) and building an d rent ($1.7 million), which were partially offset by a decrease in professional fees ($1.2 million). Additionally, the increases reflected the inclusion of $20.0 million in SG&A related to American from October 20, 2017, as well as the opening of five new taverns in the Las Vegas Valley in 2017. Within our Casinos segment, SG&A expenses increased $16.3 million, or 75%, resulting primarily from the inclusion of SG&A related to American from October 20, 2017. The majority of the SG&A expenses in this segment comprised marketing and advertising, building and rent expense, bonus and payroll taxes. SG&A expenses at Rocky Gap decrease $0.4 million year-over-year. Within our Distributed Gaming segment, SG&A expenses increased $1.2 million or 5%, primarily due to the opening of five new taverns in the Las Vegas Valley in 2017, the inclusion of a full year of SG&A from the Montana distributed gaming businesses we acquired in January and April 2016, and the opening of five taverns in 2016, partially offset by a decrease year-over-year in professional fees and equipment rental. The majority of SG&A expenses in this segment comprised payroll taxes, building and rent expense, professional fees and equipment rental. Corporate-level SG&A increased $14.6 million, or 64%, primarily due to an increase of $1.3 million in professional fees and $3.6 million in payroll and related expenses, and the inclusion of $3.2 million of corporate-level SG&A related to American from October 20, 2017. Acquisition and Merger Expenses Acquisition and merger expenses during 2017 primarily related to the American Acquisition, and during 2016 primarily related to the Sartini Gaming merger. Preopening Expenses During 2017, preopening expenses related primarily to costs incurred in the opening of new tavern locations in the Las Vegas Valley. During 2016, preopening expenses related primarily to costs incurred in connection with the Montana Acquisitions and the opening of new tavern locations in the Las Vegas Valley. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation increased $11.1 million, or 55%, due primarily to depreciation of the assets acquired in the American Acquisition, as well as a full year of depreciation on assets acquired in the Montana Acquisitions. Amortization of intangibles increased $2.2, or 30%, primarily to intangible assets acquired in the American Acquisition and the Montana Acquisitions. Non-Operating Expense, Net Non-operating expense, net increased $20.1 million, primarily due to a $13.1 million increase in interest expense from the substantially higher level of indebtedness under the new senior secured credit facilities we entered into in October 2017, partially offset by a gain on change in fair value of derivative of $0.2 million. Non-operating expense, net in 2017 also included $1.7 million related to a loss on extinguishment of debt. Income Taxes Income tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2017 was approximately $7.9 million, which resulted from the partial release of the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets and the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Income tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2016 was approximately $4.3 million, attributable primarily to a partial release of the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets. The effective tax rate was 137.8% for the year ended December 31, 2017, which differed from the federal tax rate of 35% due primarily to the partial release of the valuation allowance, along with the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 34 31, 2016 was (36.1) %, which differed from the federal tax rate of 35% due to changes in the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets . As of December 31, 2017, we evaluated all available positive and negative evidence related to our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets. We considered the expected future book income (losses), taxable loss carryforward potential and other factors in reaching the conclusion that some of the deferred tax assets were expected to be realized, and that therefore, the valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets required adjustment. Non-GAAP Measures To supplement our consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles ( GAAP ), we use Adjusted EBITDA, a measure we believe is appropriate to provide meaningful comparison with, and to enhance an overall understanding of, our past financial performance and prospects for the future. We believe Adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to both management and investors by excluding specific expenses and gains that we believe are not indicative of our core operating results. Further, Adjusted EBITDA is a measure of operating performance used by management, as well as industry analysts, to evaluate operations and operating performance and is widely used in the gaming industry. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, other companies in our industry may calculate Adjusted EBITDA differently than we do. A reconciliation of net income (loss) to Adjusted EBITDA is provided in the table below. We define Adjusted EBITDA as earnings before interest and other non-operating income (expense), income taxes, depreciation and amortization, preopening expenses, acquisition and merger expenses, class action litigation expenses, share-based compensation expenses, executive severance and sign-on bonuses, gain on contingent consideration, gain/loss on disposal of property and equipment, gain on change in fair value of derivative, loss on extinguishment of debt and impairments and other gains and losses. The following table presents a reconciliation of net income (loss) to Adjusted EBITDA: Year Ended December 31, (In thousands) 2018 2017 2016 Net income (loss) $ (20,914 ) $ 2,084 $ 16,300 Depreciation and amortization 94,456 40,786 27,506 Acquisition and merger expenses 2,956 5,041 614 Loss on disposal of property and equipment 3,336 441 54 Gain on contingent consideration (1,719 ) Share-based compensation 9,988 8,754 3,878 Preopening expenses 1,171 1,632 2,471 Class action litigation expenses 574 1,617 Executive severance and sign-on bonuses 784 1,142 1,037 Other operating, net (157 ) Other, net 514 (869 ) Interest expense, net 64,028 19,598 6,454 Gain on sale of land held for sale (4,525 ) Loss on extinguishment of debt 1,708 Change in fair value of derivative (1,786 ) (178 ) Income tax provision (benefit) 9,639 (7,921 ) (4,325 ) Adjusted EBITDA $ 164,746 $ 72,828 $ 48,595 Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2018, we had $116.1 million in cash and cash equivalents. We currently believe that our cash and cash equivalents, cash flows from operations and borrowing availability under our revolving credit facility will be sufficient to meet our capital requirements during the next 12 months. 35 Our operating results and performance depend significantly on national, regional and local economic conditions and their effect on consumer spending. Declines in consumer spendin g would cause revenues generated in both our Casinos and Distributed Gaming segments to be adversely affected. To further enhance our liquidity position or to finance any future acquisition or other business investment initiatives, we may obtain additional financing, which could consist of debt, convertible debt or equity financing from public and/or private credit and capital markets. In January 2018, the SEC declared our universal shelf registration statement effective for the future sale of up to $150.0 million in aggregate amount of common stock, preferred stock, debt securities, warrants and units and the resale of up to approximately 8.0 million shares of our common stock held by the selling security holders named therein. The securities may be offered from time to time, separately or together, directly by us or through underwriters, dealers or agents at amounts, prices, interest rates and other terms to be determined at the time of the offering. In January 2018, we completed an underwritten public offering pursuant to our universal shelf registration statement, in which certain of our shareholders resold an aggregate of 6.5 million shares of our common stock, and we sold 975,000 newly issued shares of our common stock. Our net proceeds from the offering were approximately $25.6 million after deducting underwriting discounts and offering expenses. Cash Flows Net cash provided by operating activities was $98.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, compared to $22.1 million for the prior year. The increase was primarily due to the flow-through effect of higher revenues from the American Acquisition. Operating cash flow decreased $15.3 million in 2017 compared to 2016 primarily due to the flow-through effect of lower revenues and timing of working capital spending. Net cash used in investing activities was $69.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, which included $68.2 million for capital expenditures. Net cash used in investing activities was $756.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, which included $724.5 million for the American Acquisition and $29.5 million for capital expenditures. Net cash used in investing activities in 2016 included cash used in the Montana Acquisitions and capital expenditures. Net cash used in financing activities was $3.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, which primarily related to $19.6 million of stock repurchases authorized in November 2018 and $8.0 million of repayments under our senior secured first lien credit facility, offset by $25.6 million of net proceeds to us in the underwritten public offering completed in January 2018. Net cash provided by financing activities was $777.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, which reflected borrowings of $789.0 million under our new senior secured credit facilities net of repayments under our previous senior secured credit facility. Net cash provided by financing activities was $11.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2016, which reflected net borrowings of $36.5 million under our then-existing senior secured credit facility, partly offset by the $23.5 million special dividend paid in July 2016 (as described in Note 4, Acquisitions , in the accompanying consolidated financial statements). Senior Secured Credit Facilities As of December 31, 2018, our senior secured credit facilities consisted of a $1 billion senior secured first lien credit facility (consisting of $800 million in term loans and a $200 million revolving credit facility) with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (as administrative agent and collateral agent), the lenders party thereto and the other entities party thereto (the First Lien Facility ), and a $200 million senior secured second lien term loan facility with Credit Suisse AG, Cayman Islands Branch (as administrative agent and collateral agent), the lenders party thereto and the other entities party thereto (the Second Lien Term Loan and, together with the First Lien Facility, the Credit Facilities ). During 2018, the size of the revolving credit facility under the First Lien Facility was increased from $100 million to $200 million. As of December 31, 2018, $792 million and $200 million of term loan borrowings were outstanding under our First Lien Facility and Second Lien Term Loan, respectively, there were no letters of credit outstanding under the First Lien Facility, and our revolving credit facility was undrawn, leaving borrowing availability under the revolving credit 36 facility as of December 31, 2018 of $200 million. Subsequent to fiscal year end, we borrowed $145.0 million under our revolving credit facility i n connection with th e closing of the Laughlin Acquisition on January 14, 2019. Borrowings under each of the Credit Facilities bear interest, at our option, at either (1) a base rate equal to the greatest of the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, the applicable administrative agent prime rate as announced from time to time, or the LIBOR rate for a one-month interest period plus 1.00%, subject to a floor of 1.75% (with respect to the term loans) or 1.00% (with respect to borrowings under the revolving credit facility) or (2) the LIBOR rate for the applicable interest period, subject to a floor of 0.75% (with respect to the term loans only), plus in each case, an applicable margin. The applicable margin for the term loans under the First Lien Facility is 2.00% for base rate loans and 3.00% for LIBOR rate loans. The applicable margin for borrowings under the revolving credit facility under the First Lien Facility ranges from 1.50% to 2.00% for base rate loans and 2.50% to 3.00% for LIBOR rate loans, based on our net leverage ratio. The applicable margin for the Second Lien Term Loan is 6.00% for base rate loans and 7.00% for LIBOR rate loans. The commitment fee for the revolving credit facility is payable quarterly at a rate of 0.375% or 0.50%, depending on our net leverage ratio, and is accrued based on the average daily unused amount of the available revolving commitment. As of December 31, 2018, the weighted-average effective interest rate on our outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facilities was approximately 5.8%. The revolving credit facility under the First Lien Facility matures on October 20, 2022, and the term loans under the First Lien Facility mature on October 20, 2024. The term loans under the First Lien Facility are repayable in 27 quarterly installments of $2.0 million each, which commenced in March 2018, followed by a final installment of $746.0 million at maturity. The term loans under the Second Lien Term Loan are repayable in full at maturity on October 20, 2025. Borrowings under each of the Credit Facilities are guaranteed by each of our existing and future wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries (other than certain insignificant or unrestricted subsidiaries), and are secured by substantially all of the present and future assets of Golden and our subsidiary guarantors (subject to certain exceptions). Under the Credit Facilities, we and our restricted subsidiaries are subject to certain limitations, including limitations on our respective ability to: incur additional debt, grant liens, sell assets, make certain investments, pay dividends and make certain other restricted payments. In addition, we will be required to pay down the term loans under the Credit Facilities under certain circumstances if we or our restricted subsidiaries issue debt, sell assets, receive certain extraordinary receipts or generate excess cash flow (subject to exceptions). The revolving credit facility under the First Lien Facility contains a financial covenant regarding a maximum net leverage ratio that applies when borrowings under the revolving credit facility exceed 30% of the total revolving commitment. The Credit Facilities also prohibit the occurrence of a change of control, which includes the acquisition of beneficial ownership of 50% or more of our capital stock (other than by certain permitted holders, which include, among others, Blake L. Sartini, Lyle A. Berman, Neil I. Sell and certain affiliated entities). If we default under the Credit Facilities due to a covenant breach or otherwise, the lenders may be entitled to, among other things, require the immediate repayment of all outstanding amounts and sell our assets to satisfy the obligations thereunder. We were in compliance with our financial covenants under the Credit Facilities as of December 31, 2018. Share Repurchase Program On November 7, 2018, our Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase up to $25.0 million shares of common stock, subject to available liquidity, general market and economic conditions, alternate uses for the capital and other factors. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we repurchased approximately 1.2 million shares of our common stock in open market transactions for approximately $19.6 million at an average price of $16.06 per share. As of December 31, 2018, approximately $5.4 million of shares of common stock remained available for repurchase pursuant to this program. On March 12, 2019, our Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase up to $25.0 million additional shares of common stock, subject to available liquidity, general market and economic conditions, alternate uses for the capital and other factors, which replaces the November 2018 share repurchase program. Share repurchases may be made from time to time in open market transactions, block trades or in private transactions in accordance with applicable securities laws and regulations and other legal requirements, including compliance with our finance agreements. There is no minimum number of shares that we are required to repurchase and the repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time without prior notice. 37 Othe r Items Affecting Liquidity We currently believe that our cash and cash equivalents, cash flows from operations and borrowing availability under our revolving credit facility will be sufficient to meet our capital requirements for the next twelve months. Any additional financing that is needed may not be available to us or, if available, may not be on terms favorable to us. The outcome of the following specific matters, including our commitments and contingencies, may also affect our liquidity. Commitments, Capital Spending and Development We perform on-going refurbishment and maintenance at our facilities, of which certain maintenance costs are capitalized if such improvement or refurbishment extends the life of the related asset, while other maintenance costs that do not so qualify are expensed as incurred. The commitment of capital and the related timing thereof are contingent upon, among other things, negotiation of final agreements and receipt of approvals from the appropriate regulatory bodies. We intend to fund such capital expenditures through our revolving credit facility and operating cash flows. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2018: 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Thereafter (In thousands) First Lien Facility $ 8,000 $ 8,000 $ 8,000 $ 8,000 $ 8,000 $ 752,000 Second Lien Term Loan 200,000 Interest on long-term debt (1) 62,708 62,255 61,807 61,365 60,922 66,050 Maryland DNR lease (2) 425 425 425 425 425 12,148 Gold Town Casino leases (3) 636 642 649 535 420 15,665 Space agreements (4) 39,200 11,025 7,436 5,000 2,047 86 Related party leases (5) 1,535 1,621 1,714 1,815 1,930 16,098 Other operating leases (6) 15,124 14,807 13,891 12,767 12,138 87,252 Notes payable and capital lease obligations (7) 2,480 1,941 1,272 199 140 2,206 $ 130,108 $ 100,716 $ 95,194 $ 90,106 $ 86,022 $ 1,151,505 (1) To the extent that applicable interest rates are variable and ultimate amounts borrowed under the Credit Facilities may fluctuate, amounts reflected represent estimated interest payments on our current outstanding balances based on interest rates at December 31, 2018 until maturity. Includes interest on notes payable. (2) In 2012, we entered into a 40-year ground lease with the Maryland DNR for approximately 270 acres in the Rocky Gap State Park in which Rocky Gap is situated. The lease expires in 2052, with an option to renew for an additional 20 years. Rent payments under the lease include variable amounts based on Rocky Gap gaming revenue and surcharges on amounts billed to and collected from guests. See Note 13, Leases , in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for information regarding the lease. (3) We lease four parcels of land, comprising approximately nine acres in the aggregate, on which our Gold Town Casino is located from several unrelated third parties. The leases have various expiration dates beginning in 2026. Approximately two of the acres are subleased to an unrelated third party. See Note 13, Leases , in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for information regarding the lease. (4) We have slot placement contracts in the form of space agreements. Under these space agreements, we lease space for our slots as part of our distributed gaming business. We pay a fixed monthly fee for the right to install, maintain and operate our slots at specific business location. (5) We lease our office headquarters building and one of our taverns from related parties. The lease for our office headquarters building expires in 2030 and the lease for our related party tavern expires in 2027. See Note 15, Related Party Transactions , in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for information on our transactions with related parties. 38 (6) We lease taverns, equipment and vehicles under noncancelable operating leases. The terms of the tavern leases r ange from one to 15 years, with various renewal options from one to 15 years. (7) Relates to notes payable on equipment purchases and previous tavern acquisitions and our capital lease obligations, including total capital lease interest obligations of $6.3 million. Other Opportunities We may investigate and pursue expansion opportunities in our existing or new markets from time to time. Such expansions will be influenced and determined by a number of factors, which may include licensing availability and approval, suitable investment opportunities and availability of acceptable financing. Investigation and pursuit of such opportunities may require us to make substantial investments or incur substantial costs, which we may fund through cash flows from operations or borrowing availability under our revolving credit facility. To the extent such sources of funds are not sufficient, we may also seek to raise such additional funds through public or private equity or debt financings or from other sources. No assurance can be given that additional financing will be available or that, if available, such financing will be obtainable on terms favorable to us. Moreover, we can provide no assurances that the investigation or pursuit of an opportunity will result in a completed transaction. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Management discussion and analysis of our results of operations and liquidity and capital resources are based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to the application of the acquisition method of accounting, long-lived assets, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, revenue recognition, income taxes and share-based compensation expenses. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ materially from these estimates. The following represent our accounting policies that involve the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for information regarding our significant accounting policies. Acquisition Method of Accounting Accounting for acquisitions requires that assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at their respective fair values as of the date of acquisition. The fair values of identifiable intangible assets are estimated using both the cost approach and an income approach, including the excess earnings, relief from royalty, cost savings method and the with-and-without methods. This requires significant estimates in determining the fair values, including market participant assumptions, projected financial information, estimates of expected cash flows, brand recognition, customer attrition rates and discount rates. Given the need for such significant judgments, we may engage the assistance of independent valuation firms. Any excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Our estimates of the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but are inherently unpredictable and uncertain. During the measurement period, which is up to one year from the acquisition date, we may record measurement period adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with a corresponding offset to goodwill. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to earnings. Transaction costs are expensed as incurred in our consolidated statement of operations. 39 Property and Equipment Property and equipment, net was $895.0 million as of December 31, 2018, comprising 65.5% of our consolidated total assets. We evaluate the carrying value whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. If triggering events are identified, we then compare the estimated undiscounted future cash flows of such assets to the carrying value of the assets. Any such assets are not impaired if the undiscounted future cash flows exceed their carrying value. If the carrying value exceeds the undiscounted future cash flows, then an impairment charge is recorded, typically measured using a discounted cash flow model, which is based on the estimated future results of the relevant reporting unit discounted using our weighted-average cost of capital and market indicators of terminal year free cash flow multiples. Property and equipment must be tested for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that its carrying amount may not be recoverable. Examples include a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which we use the asset, a change in its physical condition, or an unexpected change in financial performance. We reconsider changes in circumstances on a frequent basis, as well as whenever a triggering event related to potential impairment has occurred. There are three generally accepted approaches available in developing an opinion of value: the cost, sales comparison and income approaches. We generally consider each of these approaches in developing a recommendation of the fair value of the asset; however, the reliability of each approach is dependent upon the availability and comparability of the market data uncovered, as well as the decision-making criteria used by market participants when evaluating an asset. We will bifurcate our investment and apply the most indicative approach to overall fair valuation, or in some cases, a weighted analysis of any or all of these methods. Given the need for significant judgements in conducting such valuations, we may engage the assistance of independent valuation firms. Goodwill We test our goodwill for impairment annually during the fourth quarter of each year, and whenever events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that impairment may have occurred. Impairment testing for goodwill is performed at the reporting unit level, and we consider each of our operating properties to be a separate reporting unit. When performing the annual goodwill impairment testing, we either conduct a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the asset is impaired, or elect to bypass this qualitative assessment and perform a quantitative test for impairment. Under the qualitative assessment, we consider both positive and negative factors, including macroeconomic conditions, industry events, financial performance and other changes, and make a determination of whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of goodwill is less than its carrying amount. If, after assessing the qualitative factors, we determine it is more likely than not the asset is impaired, we perform a quantitative test in which the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is compared with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to the excess, limited to the amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit. When performing the quantitative test, we estimate the fair value of each reporting unit using the expected present value of future cash flows along with value indications based on our current valuation multiple and multiples of comparable publicly traded companies. The estimation of fair value requires management to make critical estimates, judgments and assumptions, including estimating expected future cash flows and selecting appropriate discount rates, valuation multiples and market comparables. Application of alternative estimates and assumptions could produce significantly different results. As of our 2018 annual goodwill testing date, the estimated fair values of each of our properties exceeded their respective carrying amounts. If the fair value of any of our properties should decline in the future, we may be required to recognize a goodwill impairment charge, which could be material. A property fair value may decline as a result of a decrease in the property actual or projected operating results or changes in significant assumptions and judgments used in the estimation process, including the discount rate and market multiple. 40 Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets Our indefinite-lived intangible assets include trade names and licenses. The fair value of our trade names is estimated using the income approach to valuation at each of our reporting units. We test our indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually during the fourth quarter of each year, and whenever events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that an asset is impaired. Indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized unless it is determined that an asset useful life is no longer indefinite. We periodically review our indefinite-lived assets to determine whether events and circumstances continue to support an indefinite useful life. If an indefinite-lived intangible asset no longer has an indefinite life, the asset is tested for impairment and is subsequently accounted for as a finite-lived intangible asset . Finite-Lived Intangible Assets Our finite-lived intangible assets primarily represent assets related to our customer relationships, player relationships, non-compete agreements and leasehold interest, which are amortized over their estimated useful lives using the straight-line method. We periodically evaluate the remaining useful lives of our finite-lived intangible assets to determine whether events or circumstances warrant a revision to the remaining period of amortization. Revenue Recognition Revenue from contracts with customers primarily consists of casino wagers, room sales, food and beverage transactions, rental income from our retail tenants and entertainment sales. Casino gaming revenues are the aggregate of gaming wins and losses. The commissions rebated to premium players for cash discounts and other cash incentives to patrons related to gaming play are recorded as a reduction to casino gaming revenues. Gaming contracts include a performance obligation to honor the patron wager and typically include a performance obligation to provide a product or service to the patron on a complimentary basis to incentivize gaming or in exchange for points earned under our loyalty programs. We generally enter into three types of slot and amusement device placement contracts as part of our distributed gaming business: space agreements, revenue share agreements and participation agreements. Under space agreements, we pay a fixed monthly rental fee for the right to install, maintain and operate our slots at a business location. Under these agreements, we recognize all gaming revenue and record fixed monthly rental fees as gaming expenses. Under revenue share agreements, we pay the business location a percentage of the gaming revenue generated from our slots placed at the location and record that amount as an expense. With regard to both space and revenue share agreements, we hold the applicable gaming license to conduct gaming at the location (although revenue share locations are required to obtain separate regulatory approval to receive a percentage of the gaming revenue). Under participation agreements, the business location holds the applicable gaming license and retains a percentage of the gaming revenue that it generates from our slots, which we record as an expense. In Montana, our slot and amusement device placement contracts are all participation agreements. In our distributed gaming business, we consider our customers to be the gaming player since we control all aspects of the slot machines. Due to the maintaining of control of the services directly before they are transferred to the customer, we are considered to be the principal in these transactions and therefore record revenue on a gross basis. For wagering contracts that include complimentary products and services provided by us to incentivize gaming, we allocate the stand-alone selling price of each product and service to the respective revenue type. Complimentary products or services provided under our control and discretion that are supplied by third parties are recorded as an operating expense. For wagering contracts that include products and services provided to a patron in exchange for points earned under our loyalty programs, Golden Rewards, ace|PLAY, Gold Mine Rewards and Rocky Gap Rewards Club, we allocate the estimated stand-alone selling price of the points earned to the loyalty program liability. Upon redemption of loyalty program points for Company-owned products and services, the stand-alone selling price of each product or service is allocated to the respective revenue type. For redemptions of points with third parties, the redemption amount is 41 deducted from the loyalty program liability and paid directly to the third party. Any discounts received by us from the third party in connection with this transaction are recorded to other revenue. After allocation to the other revenue types for products and services provided to patrons as part of a wagering contract, the residual amount is recorded to casino gaming revenue as soon as the wager is settled. As all wagers have similar characteristics, we account for our gaming contracts collectively on a portfolio basis. Revenue from leases is primarily recorded to other revenues and is generated from base rents through long-term leases with retail tenants. Base rent, adjusted for contractual escalations, is recognized on a straight-lined basis over the term of the related lease. Overage rent is paid by a tenant when its sales exceed an agreed upon minimum amount and is not recognized by us until the threshold is met. Food, beverage, and retail revenues are recorded at the time of sale. Room revenue is recorded at the time of occupancy. Sales taxes and surcharges collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities are presented on a net basis. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the United States. Accounting standards require the recognition of deferred tax assets, net of applicable reserves, and liabilities for the estimated future tax consequences attributable to differences between financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect of a change in tax rates on the income tax provision and deferred tax assets and liabilities generally is recognized in the results of operations in the period that includes the enactment date. Accounting standards require recognition of a future tax benefit to the extent that realization of such benefit is more likely than not. Otherwise, a valuation allowance is applied. Our income tax returns are subject to examination by the IRS and other tax authorities in the locations where we operate. We assess potentially unfavorable outcomes of such examinations based on accounting standards for uncertain income taxes. The accounting standards prescribe a minimum recognition threshold a tax position is required to meet before being recognized in the financial statements. Uncertain tax position accounting standards apply to all tax positions related to income taxes. These accounting standards utilize a two-step approach for evaluating tax positions. The tax benefit is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is more likely than not to be realized upon settlement. We record estimated penalties and interest related to income tax matters, including uncertain tax positions, if any, as a component of income tax expense. Share-Based Compensation Expense We have various share-based compensation programs, which provide for equity awards such as stock options, time-based restricted stock units ( RSUs ) and performance-based restricted stock units ( PSUs ). We use the straight-line method to recognize compensation expense associated with share-based awards based on the fair value on the date of grant. Expense is recognized over the requisite service period related to each award, which is the period between the grant date and the award stated vesting term. The fair value of stock options is estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. Management makes several assumptions to determine the inputs into the Black-Scholes option pricing model, including our volatility and expected term assumptions which can significantly affect the fair value of stock options. Changes in the assumptions can materially affect the estimate of the fair value of share-based compensation expense recognized in the consolidated statement of operations. The extent of the impact will depend, in part, on the extent of awards in any given year. For RSUs and PSUs, compensation expense is calculated based on the fair market value of our common stock on the date of grant. All of our stock compensation expense is recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of operations. 42 Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for information regarding recently issued accounting pronouncements. Regulation and Taxes The casino and distributed gaming industries are subject to extensive regulation by state gaming authorities. Changes in applicable laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on us. The gaming industry represents a significant source of tax revenues to regulators. From time to time, various federal and state legislators and officials have proposed changes in tax law, or in the administration of such law, affecting the gaming industry. It is not possible to determine the likelihood of possible changes in tax law or in the administration of such law. Such changes, if adopted, could have a material adverse effect on our future financial position, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. See the Regulation section included in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of applicable regulations. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that is material to investors. 43 
