CIK: 1166388
Company Name: VERINT SYSTEMS INC
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2018-03-29
Accession Number: 0001166388-18-000013


Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following management discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with Business under Item 1, Selected Financial Data under Item 6, and our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included under Item 8 of this report. This discussion contains a number of forward-looking statements, all of which are based on our current expectations and all of which could be affected by uncertainties and risks. Our actual results may differ materially from the results contemplated in these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors including, but not limited to, those described in Risk Factors under Item 1A of this report. Overview Our Business Verint is a global leader in Actionable Intelligence solutions. Actionable Intelligence is a necessity in a dynamic world of massive information growth because it empowers organizations with crucial insights and enables decision makers to anticipate, respond, and take action. With Verint solutions and value-added services, organizations of all sizes and across many industries can make more informed, timely, and effective decisions. Today, over 10,000 organizations in more than 180 countries, including over 85 percent of the Fortune 100, use Verint solutions to optimize customer engagement and make the world a safer place. We have established leadership positions in Actionable Intelligence by developing highly-scalable, enterprise-class software and services with advanced, integrated analytics for both structured and unstructured information. Our innovative solutions are developed by a large research and development ( R&D ) team comprised of approximately 1,400 professionals and backed by more than 850 patents and patent applications worldwide. To help our customers maximize the benefits of our technology over the solution lifecycle and provide a high degree of flexibility, we offer a broad range of services, such as strategic consulting, managed services, implementation services, training, maintenance, and 24x7 support. Additionally, we offer a broad range of deployment options, including cloud, on-premises, and hybrid, and software licensing and delivery models that include perpetual licenses and SaaS. 33 Table of Contents In August 2016, we reorganized into two businesses, and are now reporting our results in two operating segments, Customer Engagement and Cyber Intelligence. For the years ended January 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016, our Customer Engagement segment represented approximately 65% , 66% , and 61% of our total revenue, respectively, while for those same years, our Cyber Intelligence segment represented approximately 35% , 34% , and 39% of our total revenue, respectively. Generally, we make business decisions by evaluating the risks and rewards of the opportunities available to us in the markets served by each of our segments. We view each operating segment differently and allocate capital, personnel, resources, and management attention accordingly. In reviewing each operating segment, we also review the performance of that segment by geography. Our marketing and sales strategies, expansion opportunities, and product offerings may differ materially within a particular segment geographically, as may our allocation of resources between segments. When making decisions regarding investments in our business, capital expenditures, or other decisions that may affect our profitability, we also consider the leverage ratio in our revolving credit facility. See Liquidity and Capital Resources for more information. Key Trends and Factors That May Impact our Performance We see the following trends and factors which may impact our performance: Customer Engagement Many organizations have significant investments in existing legacy systems that they wish to protect. Our open portfolio is designed to easily integrate into customers current and evolving technology environments, and easily share data across the organization. Our open portfolio is also compatible with leading providers of call center communications products, which provides organizations flexibility to select the most suitable solutions for their contact centers, while leveraging Verint portfolio for the both the contact center and enterprise. We believe this compatibility is particularly important now as the contact center communications market is evolving with new entrants offering disruptive approaches to communications. Many organizations are looking to modernize their legacy customer engagement operations by transitioning to the cloud, adopting modern architectures that facilitate the orchestration of disparate systems and the sharing of data across enterprise functions. We offer organizations a smooth transition to the cloud, and through our hybrid cloud model, organizations can deploy solutions from our portfolio in public cloud (SaaS), private cloud and perpetual license models, or combinations of these models. Organizations are looking for solutions that incorporate machine learning and analytics to automate work and reduce manual labor. Our solutions enable organizations to draw on the power of automation to reduce repetitive, manual tasks, increase employee efficiency, and lower cost. Our growth will be impacted by the rate of adoption of our new solutions and the rate of market saturation for our legacy, more mature solutions. Cyber Intelligence Security and intelligence organizations are finding it more difficult to detect, investigate and neutralize threats. Many of these organizations are seeking to deploy more advanced data mining solutions that can help them capture and analyze data from multiple sources to effectively and efficiently address the challenge of the increased complexity and sophistication of today security threats and encrypted communications. Verint has a long history of working closely with leading security organizations around the world and has designed its data mining software portfolio based on a deep understanding of our customers needs, proven intelligence methodologies and deep domain expertise in an effort to help them address these constantly evolving challenges. Our growth will be impacted by our ability to innovate and work with customers to address the more complex security and intelligence challenges. Many security organizations are seeking advanced data mining solutions that automate functions historically performed manually to improve the quality and speed of investigations and intelligence production. These organizations are also increasingly seeking artificial intelligence and other advanced data analysis tools such as predictive intelligence to gain intelligence faster with fewer analysts and data scientists, especially given the shortage of qualified personnel in today market. Our growth will be impacted by our ability to leverage automation and predictive intelligence technologies to improve the quality and speed of investigations and intelligence production. See Item 1, Business , of this report for more information on key trends that we believe are driving demand for our solutions and Risk Factors under Item 1A of this report for a more complete description of risks that may impact future revenue and profitability. 34 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates An appreciation of our critical accounting policies is necessary to understand our financial results. The accounting policies outlined below are considered to be critical because they can materially affect our operating results and financial condition, as these policies may require us to make difficult and subjective judgments regarding uncertainties. The accuracy of these estimates and the likelihood of future changes depend on a range of possible outcomes and a number of underlying variables, many of which are beyond our control, and there can be no assurance that our estimates are accurate. Revenue Recognition Our revenue recognition policy is a critical component of determining our operating results and is based on a complex set of accounting rules that require us to make significant judgments and estimates. We derive and report our revenue in two categories: (a) product revenue, including licensing of software products and sale of hardware products (which include software that works together with the hardware to deliver the product essential functionality), and (b) service and support revenue, including revenue from installation services, post-contract customer support ( PCS ), project management, hosting services, SaaS, application managed services, product warranties, business advisory consulting and training services. We follow the appropriate revenue recognition rules for each of these revenue streams. For additional information, see Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this report. Revenue recognition for a particular arrangement is dependent upon such factors as the level of customization within the solution and the contractual delivery, acceptance, payment, and support terms with the customer. Significant judgment is often required to conclude on each of these factors, and if we were to change any of these assumptions or judgments, it could cause a material increase or decrease in the amount of revenue that we report in a particular period. We generally consider a purchase order or executed sales quote, when combined with a master license agreement, to constitute evidence of an arrangement. Delivery occurs when the product is shipped or transmitted and title and risk of loss have transferred to the customers. Our typical customer arrangements do not include substantive product acceptance provisions; however, if such provisions are provided, delivery is deemed to occur upon acceptance. We consider the fee to be fixed or determinable unless the fee is subject to refund or adjustment or is not payable within our standard payment terms. If the fee due from a customer is not fixed or determinable due to extended payment terms, revenue is recognized when payment becomes due or upon cash receipt, whichever is earlier. For multiple-element arrangements comprised only of tangible products containing software components and non-software components and related services, we allocate revenue to each element in an arrangement based on a selling price hierarchy. The selling price for a deliverable is based on its vendor-specific objective evidence ( VSOE ), if available, third-party evidence ( TPE ), if VSOE is not available, or estimated selling price ( ESP ), if neither VSOE nor TPE is available. The total transaction revenue is allocated to the multiple elements based on each element relative selling price compared to the total selling price. We account for multiple-element arrangements that contain only software and software-related elements by allocating a portion of the total purchase price to the undelivered elements, primarily installation services, PCS, consulting, and training, using VSOE of fair value of the undelivered elements. The remaining portion of the total transaction value is allocated to the delivered software, referred to as the residual method. If we are unable to establish VSOE for the undelivered elements of the arrangement, revenue recognition is deferred for the entire arrangement until all elements of the arrangement are delivered, unless the only undelivered element is PCS, in which case we recognize the arrangement fee ratably over the PCS period. For multiple-element arrangements that are comprised of a combination of software and non-software deliverables, the total transaction value is bifurcated between the software deliverables and non-software deliverables based on the relative selling prices of the software and non-software deliverables as a group. Revenue is then recognized for the software and software-related services following the residual method or ratably over the PCS period if VSOE for PCS does not exist, and for the non-software deliverables following the revenue recognition methodology outlined above for multiple-element arrangements that contain tangible products and other non-software related services. Our policy for establishing VSOE for installation, business advisory consulting, and training is based upon an analysis of separate sales of services. We utilize either the substantive renewal rate approach or the bell-shaped curve approach to establish VSOE for our PCS offerings, depending upon the business segment, geographical region, or product line. The timing of revenue recognition on software licenses and other revenue could be significantly impacted if we are unable to maintain VSOE on one or more undelivered elements during any quarterly period. Loss of VSOE could result in (i) the complete deferral of all revenue or (ii) ratable recognition of all revenue under a customer arrangement until such time as VSOE is re-established. 35 Table of Contents If we are unable to determine the selling price because VSOE or TPE does not exist, we determine ESP for the purposes of allocating the arrangement by considering several external and internal factors including, but not limited to, pricing practices, similar product offerings, margin objectives, geographies in which we offer our products and services, internal costs, competition, and product lifecycle. The determination of ESP is made through consultation with and approval by our management, taking into consideration our go-to-market strategies. We have established processes to update ESP for each element, when appropriate, to ensure that it reflects recent pricing experience. PCS revenue is derived from providing technical software support services and unspecified software updates and upgrades to customers on a when-and-if-available basis. PCS revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the maintenance period which, in most cases, is one year. When PCS is included within a multiple-element arrangement, we utilize either the substantive renewal rate approach or the bell-shaped curve approach to establish VSOE of the PCS, depending upon the business operating segment, geographical region, or product line. Under the substantive renewal rate approach, we believe it is necessary to evaluate whether both the support renewal rate and term are substantive, and whether the renewal rate is being consistently applied to subsequent renewals for a particular customer. We establish VSOE under this approach through analyzing the renewal rate stated in the customer agreement and determining whether that rate is above the minimum substantive VSOE renewal rate established for that particular PCS offering. The minimum substantive VSOE rate is determined based upon an analysis of renewal rates associated with historical PCS contracts. Typically, renewal rates of 15% for PCS plans that provide when-and-if-available upgrades, and 10% for plans that do not provide for when-and-if-available upgrades, would be deemed to be minimum substantive renewal rates. Under the bell-shaped curve approach of establishing VSOE, we perform a VSOE compliance test to ensure that a substantial majority (75% or over) of our actual PCS renewals are within a narrow range of plus or minus 15% of the median pricing. Some of our arrangements require significant customization of the product to meet the particular requirements of the customer. For these arrangements, revenue is recognized under contract accounting methods, typically using the percentage of completion ( POC ) method. Under the POC method, revenue recognition is generally based upon the ratio of hours incurred to date to the total estimated hours required to complete the contract. Profit estimates on long-term contracts are revised periodically based on changes in circumstances, and any losses on contracts are recognized in the period that such losses become evident. Generally, the terms of long-term contracts provide for progress billings based on completion of milestones or other defined phases of work. Significant judgment is often required when estimating total hours and progress to completion on these arrangements, as well as whether a loss is expected to be incurred on the contract due to several factors including the degree of customization required and the customer existing environment. We use historical experience, project plans, and an assessment of the risks and uncertainties inherent in the arrangement to establish these estimates. Uncertainties in these arrangements include implementation delays or performance issues that may or may not be within our control. We extend customary trade payment terms to our customers in the normal course of conducting business. To assess the probability of collection for purposes of revenue recognition, we have established credit policies that establish prudent credit limits for our customers. These credit limits are based upon our risk assessment of the customer ability to pay, their payment history, geographic risk, and other factors, and are not contingent upon the resale of the product or upon the collection of payments from their customers. These credit limits are reviewed and revised periodically on the basis of updated customer financial statement information, payment performance, and other factors. When a customer is not deemed creditworthy, revenue is recognized when payment is received. We record provisions for estimated product returns in the same period in which the associated revenue is recognized. We base these estimates of product returns upon historical levels of sales returns and other known factors. Actual product returns could be different from our estimates and current or future provisions for product returns may differ from historical provisions. Concessions granted to customers are recorded as reductions to revenue in the period in which they were granted and have been minimal in both amount and frequency. Product revenue derived from shipments to resellers and OEMs who purchase our products for resale are generally recognized when such products are shipped (on a sell-in basis) since we do not expect our resellers or OEMs to carry inventory of our products. This policy is predicated on our ability to estimate sales returns as well as other criteria regarding these customers. We are also required to evaluate whether our resellers and OEMs have the ability to honor their commitment to make fixed or determinable payments regardless of whether they collect payment from their customers. In this regard, we assess whether our resellers and OEMs are new, poorly capitalized, or experiencing financial difficulty, and whether they have a pattern of not paying as amounts become due on previous arrangements or seeking payment terms longer than those provided to end customers. If we were to change any of these assumptions or judgments, it could cause a material change to the revenue 36 Table of Contents reported in a particular period. We have historically experienced insignificant product returns from resellers and OEMs, and our payment terms for these customers are similar to those granted to our end-users. Our policy also presumes that we have no significant performance obligations in connection with the sale of our products by our resellers and OEMs to their customers. If a reseller or OEM develops a pattern of payment delinquency, or seeks payment terms longer than generally granted to our resellers or OEMs, we defer the recognition of revenue from transactions with that reseller or OEM until the receipt of cash. In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which supersedes nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under GAAP. The standard core principle is that an entity should recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. ASU No. 2014-09 defines a five-step process to implement this core principle. In implementing this new principle, it is possible more judgment and estimates may be required within the revenue recognition process than are required under existing revenue recognition guidance. We adopted ASU No. 2014-09 under the modified retrospective option effective February 1, 2018. For additional information regarding the new revenue recognition accounting standard, please refer to Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8 of this report, under Recent Accounting Pronouncements . Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We estimate the collectability of our accounts receivable balances each accounting period and adjust our allowance for doubtful accounts accordingly. We exercise a considerable amount of judgment in assessing the collectability of accounts receivable, including consideration of the creditworthiness of each customer, their collection history, and the related aging of past due accounts receivable balances. We evaluate specific accounts when we learn that a customer may be experiencing a deterioration of its financial condition due to lower credit ratings, bankruptcy, or other factors that may affect its ability to render payment. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, affecting their ability to make payments, additional customer-specific provisions for doubtful accounts may be required. Any such additional provisions would reduce operating income in the periods in which they were recorded. Accounting for Business Combinations We allocate the purchase price of acquired companies to the tangible and intangible assets acquired, including in-process research and development assets, and liabilities assumed, based upon their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. These fair values are typically estimated with assistance from independent valuation specialists. The purchase price allocation process requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially at the acquisition date with respect to intangible assets, contractual support obligations assumed, contingent consideration arrangements, and pre-acquisition contingencies. Although we believe the assumptions and estimates we have made in the past have been reasonable and appropriate, they are based in part on historical experience and information obtained from the management of the acquired companies and are inherently uncertain. Examples of critical estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets we have acquired or may acquire in the future include but are not limited to: future expected cash flows from software license sales, support agreements, consulting contracts, other customer contracts, and acquired developed technologies; expected costs to develop in-process research and development into commercially viable products and estimated cash flows from the projects when completed; the acquired company brand and competitive position, as well as assumptions about the period of time the acquired brand will continue to be used in the combined company product portfolio; cost of capital and discount rates; and estimating the useful lives of acquired assets as well as the pattern or manner in which the assets will amortize. In connection with the purchase price allocations for applicable acquisitions, we estimate the fair value of the contractual support obligations we are assuming from the acquired business. The estimated fair value of the support obligations is determined utilizing a cost build-up approach, which determines fair value by estimating the costs related to fulfilling the obligations plus a reasonable profit margin. The estimated costs to fulfill the support obligations are based on the historical 37 Table of Contents direct costs related to providing the support services. The sum of these costs and operating profit represents an approximation of the amount that we would be required to pay a third party to assume the support obligations. Impairment of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets We test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level, which can be an operating segment or one level below an operating segment, on an annual basis as of November 1, or more frequently if changes in facts and circumstances indicate that impairment in the value of goodwill may exist. As of January 31, 2018, our reporting units are Customer Engagement, Cyber Intelligence (excluding situational intelligence solutions), and Situational Intelligence, which is a component of our Cyber Intelligence operating segment. We review goodwill for impairment utilizing either a qualitative assessment or a two-step process. If we decide that it is appropriate to perform a qualitative assessment and conclude that the fair value of a reporting unit more likely than not exceeds its carrying value, no further evaluation is necessary. For reporting units where we perform the two-step process, the first step requires us to estimate the fair value of each reporting unit and compare that fair value to the respective carrying value, which includes goodwill. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, the goodwill is not considered impaired and no further evaluation is necessary. If the carrying value is higher than the estimated fair value, there is an indication that impairment may exist and the second step is required. In the second step, the implied fair value of goodwill is calculated as the excess of the fair value of a reporting unit over the fair values assigned to its assets and liabilities. If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying value of the reporting unit goodwill, the difference is recognized as an impairment charge. For reporting units where we decide to perform a qualitative assessment, we assess and make judgments regarding a variety of factors which potentially impact the fair value of a reporting unit, including general economic conditions, industry and market-specific conditions, customer behavior, cost factors, our financial performance and trends, our strategies and business plans, capital requirements, management and personnel issues, and our stock price, among others. We then consider the totality of these and other factors, placing more weight on the events and circumstances that are judged to most affect a reporting unit fair value or the carrying amount of its net assets, to reach a qualitative conclusion regarding whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount. For reporting units where we perform the two-step process, we utilize one or more of three primary approaches to assess fair value: (a) an income-based approach, using projected discounted cash flows, (b) a market-based approach, using valuation multiples of comparable companies, and (c) a transaction-based approach, using valuation multiples for recent acquisitions of similar businesses made in the marketplace. Our estimate of fair value of each reporting unit is based on a number of subjective factors, including: (a) appropriate consideration of valuation approaches (income approach, comparable public company approach, and comparable transaction approach), (b) estimates of future growth rates, (c) estimates of our future cost structure, (d) discount rates for our estimated cash flows, (e) selection of peer group companies for the comparable public company and the comparable transaction approaches, (f) required levels of working capital, (g) assumed terminal value, and (h) time horizon of cash flow forecasts. The determination of reporting units also requires judgment. We assess whether a reporting unit exists within a reportable segment by identifying the unit, determining whether the unit qualifies as a business under GAAP, and assessing the availability and regular review by segment management of discrete financial information for the unit. We review intangible assets that have finite useful lives and other long-lived assets when an event occurs indicating the potential for impairment. If any indicators are present, we perform a recoverability test by comparing the sum of the estimated undiscounted future cash flows attributable to the assets in question to their carrying amounts. If the undiscounted cash flows used in the test for recoverability are less than the long-lived assets carrying amount, we determine the fair value of the long-lived asset and recognize an impairment loss if the carrying amount of the long-lived asset exceeds its fair value. The impairment loss recognized is the amount by which the carrying amount of the long-lived asset exceeds its fair value. For all of our goodwill and other intangible asset impairment reviews, the assumptions and estimates used in the process are complex and often subjective. They can be affected by a variety of factors, including external factors such as industry and economic trends, and internal factors such as changes in our business strategy or our internal forecasts. Although we believe the assumptions, judgments, and estimates we have used in our assessments are reasonable and appropriate, a material change in any of our assumptions or external factors could lead to future goodwill or other intangible asset impairment charges. Based upon our November 1, 2017 goodwill impairment reviews, we concluded that the estimated fair values of our Customer Engagement, Cyber Intelligence, and Situational Intelligence reporting units significantly exceeded their carrying values. 38 Table of Contents Our Customer Engagement, Cyber Intelligence, and Situational Intelligence reporting units carried goodwill of $1.3 billion , $126.0 million , and $11.3 million , respectively, at January 31, 2018. Income Taxes We account for income taxes under the asset and liability method, which includes the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in our consolidated financial statements. Under this approach, deferred taxes are recorded for the future tax consequences expected to occur when the reported amounts of assets and liabilities are recovered or paid. The provision for income taxes represents income taxes paid or payable for the current year plus deferred taxes. Deferred taxes result from differences between the financial statement and tax bases of our assets and liabilities, and are adjusted for changes in tax rates and tax laws when changes are enacted. The effects of future changes in income tax laws or rates are not anticipated. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. The calculation of our income tax provision involves the application of complex tax laws and requires significant judgment and estimates. On December 22, 2017, the 2017 Tax Act was enacted in the United States. The 2017 Tax Act significantly revises the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and it includes fundamental changes to taxation of U.S. multinational corporations. Compliance with the 2017 Tax Act will require significant complex computations not previously required by U.S. tax law. It is unclear how certain provisions of the 2017 Tax Act will be applied absent further legislative, regulatory, or accounting clarification and guidance. In addition, it is uncertain if and to what extent various states will enact legislation to conform to the 2017 Tax Act. It is also uncertain if and to what extent foreign governments may enact tax legislation in response to the 2017 Tax Act. Also, on December 22, 2017, the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 ( SAB No. 118 ). SAB No. 118 provides guidance on accounting for the tax effects of the 2017 Tax Act and allows registrants to record provisional amounts for a period of up to one year from the date of enactment of the 2017 Tax Act. We consider amounts related to the 2017 Tax Act to be reasonably estimated as of January 31, 2018. We expect to refine and complete the accounting for the 2017 Tax Act during the year ending January 31, 2019 as we obtain, prepare, and analyze additional information and as additional legislative, regulatory, and accounting guidance and interpretations become available. We evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets for each jurisdiction in which we operate at each reporting date, and we establish a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that all or a portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income of the same character and in the same jurisdiction. We consider all available positive and negative evidence in making this assessment, including, but not limited to, the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, and tax planning strategies. In circumstances where there is sufficient negative evidence indicating that our deferred tax assets are not more likely than not realizable, we establish a valuation allowance. We use a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions. The first step is to evaluate tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return by assessing whether they are more likely than not sustainable, based solely on their technical merits, upon examination, and including resolution of any related appeals or litigation process. The second step is to measure the associated tax benefit of each position as the largest amount that we believe is more likely than not realizable. Differences between the amount of tax benefits taken or expected to be taken in our income tax returns and the amount of tax benefits recognized in our financial statements represent our unrecognized income tax benefits, which we either record as a liability or as a reduction of deferred tax assets. Our policy is to include interest (expense and/or income) and penalties related to unrecognized income tax benefits as a component of the provision for income taxes. Contingencies We recognize an estimated loss from a claim or loss contingency when and if information available prior to issuance of the financial statements indicates that it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred at the date of the financial statements and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Accounting for claims and contingencies requires the use of significant judgment and estimates. One notable potential source of loss contingencies is pending or threatened litigation. Legal counsel and other advisors and experts are consulted on issues related to litigation as well as on matters related to contingencies occurring in the ordinary course of business. Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation We recognize the cost of employee services received in exchange for awards of equity instruments based on the grant-date fair value of the award. 39 Table of Contents During the three-year period ended January 31, 2018, restricted stock units were our predominant stock-based payment award. The fair value of these awards is equivalent to the market value of our common stock on the grant date. We periodically award restricted stock units to executive officers and certain employees that vest upon the achievement of specified performance goals or market conditions. The recognition of the compensation costs of the performance-based awards with performance goals requires an assessment of the probability that the specified performance criteria will be achieved. At each reporting date, we update our assessment of the probability that the specified performance criteria will be achieved and adjust our estimate of the fair value of the award, if necessary. For the performance-based awards with market conditions, the condition is incorporated into the grant date fair value valuation of the award and compensation costs are recognized even if the market condition is not satisfied. Changes in assumptions can materially affect the estimate of fair value of stock-based compensation and, consequently, the related expense recognized. The assumptions we use in calculating the fair value of stock-based payment awards represent our best estimates, which involve inherent uncertainties and the application of judgment. As a result, if factors change and we use different assumptions, our stock-based compensation expense could be materially different in the future. Cost of Revenue We have made an accounting policy election whereby certain costs of product revenue, including hardware and third-party software license fees, are capitalized and amortized over the same period that product revenue is recognized, while installation and other service costs are generally expensed as incurred, except for certain contracts recognized according to contract accounting. For example, in a multiple-element arrangement where revenue is recognized over the PCS support period, the cost of revenue associated with the product is capitalized upon product delivery and amortized over that same period. However, the cost of revenue associated with the services is expensed as incurred in the period in which the services are performed. In addition, we expense customer acquisition and origination costs to selling, general and administrative expenses, including sales commissions, as incurred, with the exception of certain sales referral fees in our Cyber Intelligence segment which are capitalized and amortized ratably over the revenue recognition period. The new revenue recognition accounting standard discussed above includes guidance on how to account for costs related to a contract, distinguishing between costs of obtaining a contract and costs of fulfilling a contract. When the application of this guidance results in the capitalization of costs, additional guidance is provided on determining an appropriate amortization period and on impairment considerations. For additional information regarding the new revenue recognition accounting standard, please refer to Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8 of this report, under Recent Accounting Pronouncements . Results of Operations Seasonality and Cyclicality As is typical for many software and technology companies, our business is subject to seasonal and cyclical factors. In most years, our revenue and operating income are typically highest in the fourth quarter and lowest in the first quarter (prior to the impact of unusual or nonrecurring items). Moreover, revenue and operating income in the first quarter of a new year may be lower than in the fourth quarter of the preceding year, in some years, by a significant margin. In addition, we generally receive a higher volume of orders in the last month of a quarter, with orders concentrated in the later part of that month. We believe that these seasonal and cyclical factors primarily reflect customer spending patterns and budget cycles, as well as the impact of incentive compensation plans for our sales personnel. While seasonal and cyclical factors such as these are common in the software and technology industry, this pattern should not be considered a reliable indicator of our future revenue or financial performance. Many other factors, including general economic conditions, may also have an impact on our business and financial results. Overview of Operating Results 40 Table of Contents The following table sets forth a summary of certain key financial information for the years ended January 31, 2018 , 2017 , and 2016: Year Ended January 31, (in thousands, except per share data) 2018 2017 2016 Revenue $ 1,135,229 $ 1,062,106 $ 1,130,266 Operating income $ 48,630 $ 17,366 $ 67,852 Net (loss) income attributable to Verint Systems Inc. $ (6,627 ) $ (29,380 ) $ 17,638 Net (loss) income per common share attributable to Verint Systems Inc.: Basic $ (0.10 ) $ (0.47 ) $ 0.29 Diluted $ (0.10 ) $ (0.47 ) $ 0.28 Year Ended January 31, 2018 compared to Year Ended January 31, 2017 . Our revenue increased approximately $73.1 million , or 7% , from $1,062.1 million in the year ended January 31, 2017 to $1,135.2 million in the year ended January 31, 2018 . The increase consisted of a $52.0 million increase in service and support revenue and a $21.1 million increase in product revenue. In our Cyber Intelligence segment, revenue increased approximately $39.0 million , or 11% , from $356.2 million in the year ended January 31, 2017 to $395.2 million in the year ended January 31, 2018 . The increase consisted of a $20.9 million increase in service and support revenue and $18.1 million increase in product revenue. In our Customer Engagement segment, revenue increased approximately $34.2 million , or 5% , from $705.9 million in the year ended January 31, 2017 to $740.1 million in the year ended January 31, 2018 . The increase consisted of a $31.1 million increase in service and support revenue and a $3.1 million increase in product revenue. For additional details on our revenue by segment, see Revenue by Operating Segment . Revenue in the Americas, EMEA, and APAC represented approximately 53% , 31% , and 16% of our total revenue, respectively, in the year ended January 31, 2018 , compared to approximately 54% , 30% , and 16% , respectively, in the year ended January 31, 2017 . Further details of changes in revenue are provided below. Operating income was $48.6 million in the year ended January 31, 2018 compared to $17.4 million in the year ended January 31, 2017 . This increase in operating income was primarily due to a $48.9 million increase in gross profit, reflecting increased gross profit in both of our segments, partially offset by an $17.7 million increase in operating expenses, which primarily consisted of a $19.6 million increase in net research and development expenses and an $8.0 million increase in selling, general and administrative expenses, partially offset by a $9.9 million decrease in amortization related to other acquired intangible assets. Further details of changes in operating income are provided below. Net loss attributable to Verint Systems Inc. was $6.6 million , and net loss per common share was $0.10 , in the year ended January 31, 2018 , compared to a net loss attributable to Verint Systems Inc. of $29.4 million , and net loss per common share of $0.47 , in the year ended January 31, 2017 . The decrease in net loss attributable to Verint Systems Inc. and net loss per common share in the year ended January 31, 2018 was primarily due to a $31.2 million increase in operating income, as described above, a $1.5 million increase in interest income, and a $12.8 million increase in other income. These were partially offset by a $1.0 million increase in interest expense, a $2.1 million loss on extinguishment of debt, and a $19.6 million increase in our provision for income taxes primarily resulting from a $15.0 million accrual for withholding taxes on foreign cash we may repatriate in the future. A portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, and therefore our revenue and operating expenses are affected by fluctuations in applicable foreign currency exchange rates. When comparing average exchange rates for the year ended January 31, 2018 to average exchange rates for the year ended January 31, 2017 , the U.S. dollar weakened relative to the euro, Australian dollar and the Singapore dollar, resulting in an overall increase in our revenue on a U.S. dollar-denominated basis. Furthermore, the U.S. dollar weakened relative to our Israeli shekel rate (hedged and unhedged), resulting in an overall increase in operating expenses on a U.S. dollar-denominated basis. For the year ended January 31, 2018 , had foreign exchange rates remained unchanged from rates in effect for the year ended January 31, 2017 , our revenue would have been approximately $4.8 million lower and our cost of revenue and operating expenses on a combined basis would have been approximately $10.7 million lower , which would have resulted in a $5.9 million increase in operating income. As of January 31, 2018, we employed approximately 5,200 professionals, including part-time employees and certain contractors, compared to approximately 5,100 at January 31, 2017. Year Ended January 31, 2017 compared to Year Ended January 31, 2016. Our revenue decreased approximately $68.2 million to $1,062.1 million in the year ended January 31, 2017 from $1,130.3 million in the year ended January 31, 2016. The decrease consisted of a $76.9 million decrease in product revenue, partially offset by an $8.7 million increase in service and support revenue. In our Cyber Intelligence segment, revenue decreased approximately $79.2 million, or 18%, from $435.4 million in 41 Table of Contents the year ended January 31, 2016 to $356.2 million in the year ended January 31, 2017. The decrease consisted of a $55.8 million decrease in product revenue and a $23.4 million decrease in service and support revenue. In our Customer Engagement segment, revenue increased approximately $11.0 million, or 2%, to $705.9 million in the year ended January 31, 2017 from $694.9 million in the year ended January 31, 2016. The increase consisted of a $32.1 million increase in service and support revenue, partially offset by a $21.1 million decrease in product revenue. For additional details on our revenue by segment, see Revenue by Operating Segment . Revenue in the Americas, EMEA, and APAC represented approximately 54%, 30%, and 16% of our total revenue, respectively, in the year ended January 31, 2017, compared to approximately 51%, 31%, and 18%, respectively, in the year ended January 31, 2016. Further details of changes in revenue are provided below. Operating income was $17.4 million in the year ended January 31, 2017 compared to $67.9 million in the year ended January 31, 2016. This decrease in operating income was primarily due to a $61.9 million decrease in gross profit primarily due to decreased gross profit in our Cyber Intelligence segment, partially offset by an $11.4 million decrease in operating expenses, which primarily consisted of a $6.6 million decrease in net research and development expenses and a $5.7 million decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses. Further details of changes in operating income are provided below. Net loss attributable to Verint Systems Inc. was $29.4 million, and net loss per common share was $0.47 in the year ended January 31, 2017, compared to net income attributable to Verint Systems Inc. of $17.6 million, and diluted net income per common share of $0.28, in the year ended January 31, 2016. The decrease in net income attributable to Verint Systems Inc. and diluted net income per common share in the year ended January 31, 2017 was primarily due to decreased operating income, as described above, a $1.5 million decrease net income attributable to our noncontrolling interests, a $1.1 million increase in interest expense, and a $1.8 million increase in our provision for income taxes. These increases were partially offset by a $5.3 million decrease in net foreign currency losses. When comparing average exchange rates for the year ended January 31, 2017 to average exchange rates for the year ended January 31, 2016, the U.S. dollar strengthened relative to the British pound sterling and our hedged Israeli shekel rate, resulting in an overall decrease in our revenue, cost of revenue, and operating expenses on a U.S. dollar-denominated basis. For the year ended January 31, 2017, had foreign exchange rates remained unchanged from rates in effect for the year ended January 31, 2016, our revenue would have been approximately $10.2 million higher and our cost of revenue and operating expenses on a combined basis would have been approximately $17.1 million higher, which would have resulted in a $6.9 million decrease in operating income. As of January 31, 2017, we employed approximately 5,100 professionals, including part-time employees and certain contractors, compared to approximately 5,000 at January 31, 2016. Revenue by Operating Segment The following table sets forth revenue for each of our operating segments for the years ended January 31, 2018 , 2017 , and 2016 : Year Ended January 31, % Change (in thousands) 2018 2017 2016 2018 - 2017 2017 - 2016 Customer Engagement $ 740,067 $ 705,897 $ 694,857 5% 2% Cyber Intelligence 395,162 356,209 435,409 11% (18)% Total revenue $ 1,135,229 $ 1,062,106 $ 1,130,266 7% (6)% Customer Engagement Segment Year Ended January 31, 2018 compared to Year Ended January 31, 2017 . Customer Engagement revenue increased approximately $34.2 million , or 5% , from $705.9 million in the year ended January 31, 2017 to $740.1 million in the year ended January 31, 2018 . The increase consisted of a $31.1 million increase in service and support revenue and a $3.1 million increase in product revenue. The increase in service and support revenue was primarily attributable to growth in sales of our cloud-based solutions during the year ended January 31, 2018. The increase in product revenue primarily reflects a modest increase in product deliveries during the year ended January 31, 2018. We continue to experience a shift in our revenue mix from product revenue to service and support revenue as a result of several factors, including a higher component of service offerings in our standard arrangements (including licenses sold through cloud deployment), an increase in services associated with customer product upgrades, and growth in our customer installed base, both organically and as a result of business combinations. 42 Table of Contents Year Ended January 31, 2017 compared to Year Ended January 31, 2016. Customer Engagement revenue increased approximately $11.0 million, or 2%, from $694.9 million in the year ended January 31, 2016 to $705.9 million in the year ended January 31, 2017. The increase consisted of a $32.1 million increase in service and support revenue, partially offset by a $21.1 million decrease in product revenue. The increase in Customer Engagement revenue reflects the implementation of our product strategy of expanding our portfolio of Customer Engagement Solutions, through both internal development and acquisitions, and our go-to-market strategy of offering customers the ability to purchase our solutions individually or part of a more comprehensive deployment. Cyber Intelligence Segment Year Ended January 31, 2018 compared to Year Ended January 31, 2017 . Cyber Intelligence revenue increased approximately $39.0 million , or 11% , from $356.2 million in the year ended January 31, 2017 to $395.2 million in the year ended January 31, 2018 . The increase consisted of a $20.9 million increase in service and support revenue and an $18.1 million increase in product revenue. The increase in service and support revenue was primarily attributable to an increase in progress realized during the current year on projects with revenue recognized using the POC method, some of which commenced in previous years, an increase in support services revenue from new and existing customers, and an increase in revenue from our SaaS offerings. The increase in product revenue was primarily due to an increase in product deliveries and, to a lesser extent, an increase in progress realized during the current year on projects with revenue recognized using the POC method, some of which commenced in previous years. Year Ended January 31, 2017 compared to Year Ended January 31, 2016. Cyber Intelligence revenue decreased approximately $79.2 million, or 18%, from $435.4 million in the year ended January 31, 2016 to $356.2 million in the year ended January 31, 2017. The decrease consisted of a $55.8 million decrease in product revenue and a $23.4 million decrease in service and support revenue. The decrease in product revenue was primarily due to a decrease in product deliveries and, to a lesser extent, a decrease in progress realized during the current year on projects with revenue recognized using the POC method, some of which commenced in previous years. The decrease in service and support revenue was primarily attributable to a decrease in progress realized during the current year on projects with revenue recognized using the POC method, some of which commenced in previous years, partially offset by an increase in support and other value-added services revenue from new and existing customers. Volume and Price We sell products in multiple configurations, and the price of any particular product varies depending on the configuration of the product sold. Due to the variety of customized configurations for each product we sell, we are unable to quantify the amount of any revenue increase attributable to a change in the price of any particular product and/or a change in the number of products sold. Product Revenue and Service and Support Revenue We derive and report our revenue in two categories: (a) product revenue, including licensing of software products and sale of hardware products (which include software that works together with the hardware to deliver the product essential functionality), and (b) service and support revenue, including revenue from installation services, post-contract customer support, project management, hosting services, cloud deployments, SaaS, application managed services, product warranties, and business advisory consulting and training services. The following table sets forth product revenue and service and support revenue for the years ended January 31, 2018 , 2017 , and 2016 : Year Ended January 31, % Change (in thousands) 2018 2017 2016 2018 - 2017 2017 - 2016 Product revenue $ 399,662 $ 378,504 $ 455,406 6% (17)% Service and support revenue 735,567 683,602 674,860 8% 1% Total revenue $ 1,135,229 $ 1,062,106 $ 1,130,266 7% (6)% Product Revenue Year Ended January 31, 2018 compared to Year Ended January 31, 2017 . Product revenue increased approximately $21.2 million , or 6% , from $378.5 million for the year ended January 31, 2017 to $399.7 million for the year ended January 31, 2018 , 43 Table of Contents resulting from an $18.1 million increase in our Cyber Intelligence segment and a $3.1 million increase in our Customer Engagement segment. Year Ended January 31, 2017 compared to Year Ended January 31, 2016. Product revenue decreased approximately $76.9 million, or 17%, from $455.4 million for the year ended January 31, 2016 to $378.5 million for the year ended January 31, 2017, resulting from a $55.8 million decrease in our Cyber Intelligence segment and a $21.1 million decrease in our Customer Engagement segment. For additional information see Revenue by Operating Segment . Service and Support Revenue Year Ended January 31, 2018 compared to Year Ended January 31, 2017 . Service and support revenue increased approximately $52.0 million , or 8% , from $683.6 million for the year ended January 31, 2017 to $735.6 million for the year ended January 31, 2018 , resulting from a $31.1 million increase in our Customer Engagement segment and a $20.9 million increase in our Cyber Intelligence segment. Year Ended January 31, 2017 compared to Year Ended January 31, 2016. Service and support revenue increased approximately $8.7 million, or 1%, from $674.9 million for the year ended January 31, 2016 to $683.6 million for the year ended January 31, 2017, resulting from a $32.1 million increase in our Customer Engagement segment, partially offset by a decrease of $23.4 million in our Cyber Intelligence segment. For additional information see Revenue by Operating Segment . Cost of Revenue The following table sets forth cost of revenue by product and service and support, as well as amortization of acquired technology for the years ended January 31, 2018 , 2017 , and 2016 : Year Ended January 31, % Change (in thousands) 2018 2017 2016 2018 - 2017 2017 - 2016 Cost of product revenue $ 131,989 $ 123,279 $ 145,071 7% (15)% Cost of service and support revenue 276,582 261,978 248,061 6% 6% Amortization of acquired technology 38,216 37,372 35,774 2% 4% Total cost of revenue $ 446,787 $ 422,629 $ 428,906 6% (1)% We exclude certain costs of both product revenue and service and support revenue, including shared support costs, stock-based compensation, and asset impairment charges, among others, when calculating our operating segment gross margins. Cost of Product Revenue Cost of product revenue primarily consists of hardware material costs and royalties due to third parties for software components that are embedded in our software solutions. When revenue is deferred, we also defer hardware material costs and third-party software royalties and recognize those costs over the same period that the product revenue is recognized. Cost of product revenue also includes amortization of capitalized software development costs, employee compensation and related expenses associated with our global operations, facility costs, and other allocated overhead expenses. In our Cyber Intelligence segment, cost of product revenue also includes employee compensation and related expenses, contractor and consulting expenses, and travel expenses, in each case for resources dedicated to project management and associated product delivery. Our product gross margins are impacted by the mix of products that we sell from period to period. As with many other technology companies, our software products tend to have higher gross margins than our hardware products. Year Ended January 31, 2018 compared to Year Ended January 31, 2017 . Cost of product revenue increased approximately 7% from $123.3 million for the year ended January 31, 2017 to $132.0 million for the year ended January 31, 2018 , primarily due to increased contractor expenses and, to a lesser extent, an increase in material costs in our Cyber Intelligence segment, driven primarily by increased revenue activity as discussed above. Our overall product gross margins were 67% in each of the years ended January 31, 2018 and 2017. Product gross margins in our Customer Engagement segment decreased slightly from 44 Table of Contents 82% in the year ended January 31, 2017 to 81% in the year ended January 31, 2018 primarily due to a change in product mix. Product gross margins in our Cyber Intelligence segment were 57% in each of the years ended January 31, 2018 and 2017. Year Ended January 31, 2017 compared to Year Ended January 31, 2016. Cost of product revenue decreased approximately 15% from $145.1 million for the year ended January 31, 2016 to $123.3 million for the year ended January 31, 2017 primarily due to decreased cost of product revenue in our Cyber Intelligence segment as a result of decreased Cyber Intelligence product revenue discussed above. Our overall product gross margins decreased slightly to 67% in the year ended January 31, 2017 from 68% in the year ended January 31, 2016. Product gross margins in our Customer Engagement segment were 82% in each of the years ended January 31, 2017 and 2016. Product gross margins in our Cyber Intelligence segment decreased from 62% in the year ended January 31, 2016 to 57% in the year ended January 31, 2017 primarily due to a change in product mix and decreased product revenue, resulting in decreased absorption of fixed overhead costs during in the year ended January 31, 2017 compared to the year ended January 31, 2016. Cost of Service and Support Revenue Cost of service and support revenue primarily consists of employee compensation and related expenses, contractor costs, hosting infrastructure costs, and travel expenses relating to installation, training, application managed services, consulting, and maintenance services. Cost of service and support revenue also includes stock-based compensation expenses, facility costs, and other overhead expenses. In accordance with GAAP and our accounting policy, the cost of service and support revenue is generally expensed as incurred in the period in which the services are performed, with the exception of certain transactions accounted for using the POC method. Year Ended January 31, 2018 compared to Year Ended January 31, 2017 . Cost of service and support revenue increased approximately 6% from $262.0 million in the year ended January 31, 2017 to $276.6 million in the year ended January 31, 2018 . Cost of service and support revenue increased in our Customer Engagement segment primarily due to costs associated with providing our cloud-based solutions, which corresponds with growth in cloud-based revenue, and an increase in costs attributable to the use of contractors during the year ended January 31, 2018 . Cost of service and support revenue increased in our Cyber Intelligence segment primarily due to costs associated with increased use of contractors as a result of increased revenue activity as discussed above. Our overall service and support gross margins were 62% in each of the years ended January 31, 2018 and 2017. Year Ended January 31, 2017 compared to Year Ended January 31, 2016. Cost of service and support revenue increased approximately 6% from $248.1 million in the year ended January 31, 2016 to $262.0 million in the year ended January 31, 2017. Cost of service and support revenue increased in our Customer Engagement segment primarily due to increased employee compensation and related expense as a result of additional services employee headcount in connection with business combinations that closed in the year ended January 31, 2017. This increase was partially offset primarily by decreased cost of service and support revenue in our Cyber Intelligence segment resulting from decreased employee compensation and related expense. Our overall service and support gross margins decreased from 63% in the year ended January 31, 2016 to 62% in the year ended January 31, 2017. Amortization of Acquired Technology Amortization of acquired technology consists of amortization of technology assets acquired in connection with business combinations. Year Ended January 31, 2018 compared to Year Ended January 31, 2017 . Amortization of acquired technology increased approximately 2% from $37.4 million in the year ended January 31, 2017 to $38.2 million in the year ended January 31, 2018 . The increase was attributable to amortization expense of acquired technology-based intangible assets associated with business combinations that closed during the year ended January 31, 2018 , as well as business combinations that closed during the prior year, for which a full year of amortization expense is reflected in the current year. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in amortization expense as a result of acquired technology intangibles from historical business combinations becoming fully amortized during the year ended January 31, 2018. Year Ended January 31, 2017 compared to Year Ended January 31, 2016. Amortization of acquired technology increased approximately 4% from $35.8 million in the year ended January 31, 2016 to $37.4 million in the year ended January 31, 2017. The increase was attributable to amortization expense of acquired technology-based intangible assets associated with business combinations that closed during the year ended January 31, 2017, partially offset by a decrease in amortization expense as a result of acquired technology intangibles from historical business combinations becoming fully amortized. 45 Table of Contents Further discussion regarding our business combinations appears in Note 4, Business Combinations to our consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this report. Research and Development, Net Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel and subcontracting expenses, facility costs, and other allocated overhead, net of certain software development costs that are capitalized, as well as reimbursements under government programs. Software development costs are capitalized upon the establishment of technological feasibility and continue to be capitalized through the general release of the related software product. The following table sets forth research and development, net for the years ended January 31, 2018 , 2017 , and 2016 : Year Ended January 31, % Change (in thousands) 2018 2017 2016 2018 - 2017 2017 - 2016 Research and development, net $ 190,643 $ 171,070 $ 177,650 11% (4)% Year Ended January 31, 2018 compared to Year Ended January 31, 2017 . Research and development, net increased approximately $19.5 million , or 11% , from $171.1 million in the year ended January 31, 2017 to $190.6 million in the year ended January 31, 2018 . The increase was primarily due to a $12.7 million increase in employee compensation and related expenses as a result of increased R&D headcount, a $3.6 million increase in contractor expenses primarily in our Cyber Intelligence segment, and a $1.5 million increase in stock-based compensation expenses for R&D employees. Year Ended January 31, 2017 compared to Year Ended January 31, 2016. Research and development, net decreased approximately $6.6 million, or 4%, from $177.7 million in the year ended January 31, 2016 to $171.1 million in the year ended January 31, 2017. The decrease was primarily due to decreased employee compensation and related expenses as a result of decreased R&D employee headcount in both of our operating segments. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs and related expenses, professional fees, sales and marketing expenses, including travel costs, sales commissions and sales referral fees, facility costs, communication expenses, and other administrative expenses. The following table sets forth selling, general and administrative expenses for the years ended January 31, 2018 , 2017 , and 2016 : Year Ended January 31, % Change (in thousands) 2018 2017 2016 2018 - 2017 2017 - 2016 Selling, general and administrative $ 414,960 $ 406,952 $ 412,728 2% (1)% Year Ended January 31, 2018 compared to Year Ended January 31, 2017 . Selling, general and administrative expenses increased approximately $8.0 million , or 2% , from $407.0 million in the year ended January 31, 2017 to $415.0 million in the year ended January 31, 2018 . This increase was primarily attributable to the following: $8.5 million increase in employee compensation and related expenses attributed primarily to additional personnel driven by recent business combinations; $5.0 million increase in professional fees resulting primarily from legal services provided in connection with recent business combinations; $4.7 million increase in contractor expenses due primarily to business agility initiatives, including upgrading our business information systems; $3.3 million charge for impairments of certain acquired customer-related intangible assets in our Customer Engagement segment; $2.4 increase in stock-based compensation expense due primarily to business combinations that closed during the year ended January 31, 2018, as well as business combinations that closed during the prior year for which a full year of stock-based compensation expense is reflected in the current year; $2.0 million increase in software subscription expenses related to internal-use software; and 46 Table of Contents $1.8 million increase in rent expense associated with business combinations that closed during the year ended January 31, 2018, as well as business combinations that closed during the prior year for which a full year of rent expense is reflected in the current year. These increases were partially offset by a $15.6 million decrease in selling, general, and administrative expenses resulting from changes in fair value of our obligations under contingent consideration arrangements from a net expense of $7.3 million during the year ended January 31, 2017 to net benefit of $8.3 million in the year ended January 31, 2018 . The impact of contingent consideration arrangements on our operating results can vary over time as we revise our outlook for achieving the performance targets underlying the arrangements. This impact on our operating results may be more significant in some periods than in others, depending on a number of factors, including the magnitude of the change in the outlook for each arrangement separately as well as the number of contingent consideration arrangements in place, the liabilities requiring adjustment in that period, and the net effect of those adjustments. Additionally, selling, general, and administrative expenses decreased by $4.6 million as a result of increased capitalization of costs associated with development of internal-use software during the year ended January 31, 2018 compared to the prior year. Year Ended January 31, 2017 compared to Year Ended January 31, 2016. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased approximately $5.7 million, or 1%, from $412.7 million in the year ended January 31, 2016 to $407.0 million in the year ended January 31, 2017. This decrease was primarily attributable to the following: $4.2 million decrease as a result of increased capitalized software development costs compared to the year ended January 31, 2016; $3.3 million decrease in employee compensation and related expenses due primarily to a decrease in headcount of general and administrative employees; and $5.3 million decrease in agent commissions in our Cyber Intelligence segment. These decreases were partially offset by an $8.2 million increase in selling, general, and administrative expenses resulting from changes in fair value of our obligations under contingent consideration arrangements from a net benefit of $0.9 million during the year ended January 31, 2016 to net expense of $7.3 million in the year ended January 31, 2017. Amortization of Other Acquired Intangible Assets Amortization of other acquired intangible assets consists of amortization of certain intangible assets acquired in connection with business combinations, including customer relationships, distribution networks, trade names and non-compete agreements. The following table sets forth amortization of other acquired intangible assets for the years ended January 31, 2018 , 2017 , and 2016 : Year Ended January 31, % Change (in thousands) 2018 2017 2016 2018 - 2017 2017 - 2016 Amortization of other acquired intangible assets $ 34,209 $ 44,089 $ 43,130 (22)% 2% Year Ended January 31, 2018 compared to Year Ended January 31, 2017 . Amortization of other acquired intangible assets decreased approximately $9.9 million , or 22% , from $44.1 million in the year ended January 31, 2017 to $34.2 million in the year ended January 31, 2018 as a result of acquired customer-related intangible assets from historical business combinations becoming fully amortized, partially offset by an increase in amortization expense from acquired intangible assets from business combinations that closed during the year ended January 31, 2018 , as well as business combinations that closed during the prior year, for which a full year of amortization expense is reflected in the current year. Year Ended January 31, 2017 compared to Year Ended January 31, 2016. Amortization of other acquired intangible assets increased approximately $1.0 million, or 2%, from $43.1 million in the year ended January 31, 2016 to $44.1 million in the year ended January 31, 2017 primarily due to amortization expense from acquired intangible assets from business combinations that closed during the year ended January 31, 2017, partially offset by a decrease in amortization expense as a result of acquired other intangibles from historical business combinations becoming fully amortized. Further discussion regarding our business combinations appears in Note 4, Business Combinations to our consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this report. Other Expense, Net 47 Table of Contents The following table sets forth total other expense, net for the years ended January 31, 2018 , 2017 , and 2016 : Year Ended January 31, % Change (in thousands) 2018 2017 2016 2018 - 2017 2017 - 2016 Interest income $ 2,477 $ 1,048 $ 1,490 136% (30)% Interest expense (35,959 ) (34,962 ) (33,885 ) 3% 3% Losses on early retirements of debt (2,150 ) % * Other income (expense): Foreign currency gains (losses) 6,760 (2,743 ) (8,037 ) (346)% (66)% (Losses) gains on derivatives (17 ) (322 ) 394 * * Other, net (841 ) (3,861 ) (4,634 ) (78)% * Total other income (expense), net 5,902 (6,926 ) (12,277 ) (185)% (44)% Total other expense, net $ (29,730 ) $ (40,840 ) $ (44,672 ) (27)% (9)% * Percentage is not meaningful. Year Ended January 31, 2018 compared to Year Ended January 31, 2017 . Total other expense, net, decreased by $11.1 million from $40.8 million in the year ended January 31, 2017 to $29.7 million in the year ended January 31, 2018 . Interest expense increased to $36.0 million in the year ended January 31, 2018 from $35.0 million in the year ended January 31, 2017 primarily due to higher interest rates on outstanding borrowings during the year ended January 31, 2018 . During the year ended January 31, 2018 we entered into a new credit agreement (the 2017 Credit Agreement ), which was subsequently amended, and terminated our Prior Credit Agreement (as defined in Note 6, Long-Term Debt to our consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this report). In connection with these transactions, we recorded $2.2 million of losses on early retirements of debt. There were no comparable charges in the year ended January 31, 2017. We recorded $6.8 million of net foreign currency gains in the year ended January 31, 2018 compared to $2.7 million of net losses in the year ended January 31, 2017 . Foreign currency gains in the year ended January 31, 2018 resulted primarily from the weakening of the U.S. dollar against the euro, resulting in foreign currency gains on euro denominated net assets in certain entities which use a U.S. dollar functional currency, the weakening of the U.S. dollar against the Singapore dollar, resulting in foreign currency gains on Singapore dollar-denominated net assets in certain entities which use a U.S. dollar functional currency, and the weakening of the U.S. dollar against the British pound sterling, resulting in foreign currency gains on U.S. dollar-denominated net payables in certain entities which use a British pound sterling functional currency. In the year ended January 31, 2018 , there were insignificant net losses on derivative financial instruments (not designated as hedging instruments), compared to net losses of $0.3 million on such instruments for the year ended January 31, 2017 . The net losses in the prior year reflected losses on contracts executed to hedge movements in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Brazilian real. Other net expenses decreased to $0.8 million in the year ended January 31, 2018 from $3.9 million in the year ended January 31, 2017 . In the year ended January 31, 2017 , we recorded a write-off of a $2.4 million cost-basis investment in our Cyber Intelligence segment, with no comparable charges in the year ended January 31, 2018. Also contributing to the decrease in other net expenses was resolution of a previously accrued sales tax contingency in our APAC region during the year ended January 31, 2018. Year Ended January 31, 2017 compared to Year Ended January 31, 2016. Total other expense, net, decreased by $3.9 million from $44.7 million in the year ended January 31, 2016 to $40.8 million in the year ended January 31, 2017. Interest expense increased to $35.0 million in the year ended January 31, 2017 from $33.9 million in the year ended January 31, 2016 primarily due to higher interest rates on outstanding borrowings during the year ended January 31, 2017. We recorded $2.7 million of net foreign currency losses in the year ended January 31, 2017 compared to $8.0 million of net losses in the year ended January 31, 2016. Foreign currency losses in the year ended January 31, 2017 resulted primarily from t he strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the British pound sterling, resulting in foreign currency losses on U.S dollar-denominated net liabilities in certain entities which use the British pound sterling functional currency, and the weakening of the U.S. dollar against the Brazilian real, resulting in foreign currency losses on U.S. dollar-denominated net assets in certain entities which use the Brazilian real function currency. 48 Table of Contents In the year ended January 31, 2017, there were net losses on derivative financial instruments (not designated as hedging instruments) of $0.3 million, compared to net gains of $0.4 million on such instruments for the year ended January 31, 2016. The net losses in the year ended January 31, 2017 reflected losses on contracts executed to hedge movements in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Brazilian real. Other net expenses decreased to $3.9 million in the year ended January 31, 2017 from $4.6 million in the year ended January 31, 2016. In the year ended January 31, 2017, we recorded a write-off of a $2.4 million cost-basis investment in our Cyber Intelligence segment. In the year ended January 31, 2016, other, net expense consisted primarily of write-offs of indemnification assets associated with tax liabilities recorded in connection with prior business combinations. Provision for Income Taxes The following table sets forth our provision for income taxes for the years ended January 31, 2018 , 2017 , and 2016 : Year Ended January 31, (in thousands) 2018 2017 2016 Provision for income taxes $ 22,354 $ 2,772 $ 952 Year Ended January 31, 2018 compared to Year Ended January 31, 2017 . Our effective income tax rate was 118.3% for the year ended January 31, 2018, compared to a negative effective income tax rate of 11.8% for the year ended January 31, 2017. For the year ended January 31, 2018, our effective income tax rate was higher than the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate of 33.8% due to withholding tax expenses of $15 million , a benefit of $5.4 million related to the revaluation of U.S. deferred tax items, the mix and levels of income and losses among taxing jurisdictions, and changes in unrecognized income tax benefits. Our statutory rate for the year ended January 31, 2018 is 33.8% due to the 2017 Tax Act. The 2017 Tax Act includes a reduction of the corporate tax rate from a top marginal rate of 35% to a flat rate of 21% . Section 15 of the Internal Revenue Code stipulates that our fiscal year ending January 31, 2018 will have a blended corporate tax rate of 33.8% which is based on the applicable tax rates before and after the 2017 Tax Act and the number of days in the year. As a result of the 2017 Tax Act, we recorded a provisional Transition Tax on previously untaxed foreign earnings. The Transition tax results in no impact to the tax provision as we intend to utilize a portion of the NOL carryforward and release valuation allowance on the associated deferred tax asset resulting in a net impact of $0 to the tax provision. Foreign earnings subject to the Transition Tax will not be subject to further U.S. taxation upon repatriation. Therefore, we may repatriate certain foreign cash, a portion of which will be subject to a withholding tax estimated to be $15 million . Also, we remeasured U.S. deferred tax items to reflect the reduced rate that will apply under the 2017 Tax Act resulting in the $5.4 million benefit. In accordance with the provisions of SAB No. 118, we consider amounts related to the 2017 Tax Act to be reasonably estimated as of January 31, 2018. We expect to refine and complete the accounting for the 2017 Tax Act during the year ending January 31, 2019 as we obtain, prepare, and analyze additional information and as additional legislative, regulatory, and accounting guidance and interpretations become available. In addition, pre-tax income in our profitable jurisdictions, where we recorded income tax provisions at rates lower than the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate, was greater than the pre-tax losses in our domestic and foreign jurisdictions where we maintain valuation allowances and did not record the related income tax benefits. The result was an income tax provision of $22.4 million on a pre-tax income of $18.9 million , which represented an effective income tax rate of 118.3% . Excluding the net impact of the 2017 Tax Act, the result was an income tax provision of $12.7 million on pre-tax income of $18.9 million , resulting in an effective income tax rate of 67.3% For the year ended January 31, 2017, our effective income tax rate was lower than the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate of 35% due to the release of $10.4 million of Verint valuation allowances, and the mix and levels of income and losses among taxing jurisdictions, offset by changes in unrecognized income tax benefits. We maintain valuation allowances on our net U.S. deferred income tax assets related to federal and certain state jurisdictions. In connection with acquisitions during the fourth quarter of the year ended January 31, 2017 (OpinionLab, Inc. and an acquisition deemed immaterial in our Customer Engagement segment), we recorded deferred income tax liabilities primarily attributable to acquired intangible assets to the extent the amortization will not be deductible for income tax purposes. Under accounting guidelines, because the amortization of the intangible assets in future periods provides a source of taxable income, we expect to realize a portion of our existing deferred income tax assets. As such, we reduced the valuation allowance recorded on our deferred income tax assets to the extent of the deferred income tax liabilities recorded. Because the valuation allowance related to existing Verint deferred income tax assets, the impact of the release was reflected as a discrete income tax benefit and not as a component of the acquisition accounting. Pre-tax income in our profitable jurisdictions, where we recorded income tax provisions at rates lower than the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate, was lower than the pre-tax losses in our domestic and foreign jurisdictions where we maintain valuation allowances and did not record the related income tax benefits. The result was an income tax provision of $2.8 million on a pre-tax loss of $23.5 million, which represented a negative effective income tax rate of 11.8%. 49 Table of Contents Year Ended January 31, 2017 compared to Year Ended January 31, 2016. Our effective income tax rate was negative 11.8% for the year ended January 31, 2017, compared to an effective income tax rate of 4.1% for the year ended January 31, 2016. For the year ended January 31, 2017, our effective income tax rate was lower than the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate of 35% for the reasons discussed above. For the year ended January 31, 2016, our effective income tax rate was lower than the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate of 35% primarily due to mix and levels of income and losses among taxing jurisdictions and changes in unrecognized income tax benefits. We recorded tax benefits of $20.2 million as a result of audit settlements and statute of limitation lapses related to domestic and foreign jurisdictions. Pre-tax income in our profitable jurisdictions, where we recorded income tax provisions at rates lower than the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate, was substantially offset by our domestic losses where we maintain valuation allowances and did not record the related income tax benefits. The result was an income tax provision of $1.0 million on $23.2 million of pre-tax income, which represented an effective income tax rate of 4.1%. The comparison of our effective income tax rates between periods is significantly impacted by changes in the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate, the level and mix of earnings and losses by tax jurisdiction, foreign income tax rate differentials, amount of permanent book to tax differences, the impact of unrecognized tax benefits, and the effects of valuation allowances on certain loss jurisdictions. Backlog For most of our transactions, delivery generally occurs within several months following receipt of the order. However, certain projects, particularly in our Cyber Intelligence segment, can extend over longer periods of time, delivery under which, for various reasons, may be delayed, modified, or canceled. As a result, we believe that our backlog at any particular time is not meaningful because it is not necessarily indicative of future revenue. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview Our primary recurring source of cash is the collection of proceeds from the sale of products and services to our customers, including cash periodically collected in advance of delivery or performance. Our primary recurring use of cash is payment of our operating costs, which consist primarily of employee-related expenses, such as compensation and benefits, as well as general operating expenses for marketing, facilities and overhead costs, and capital expenditures. We also utilize cash for debt service and periodically for business acquisitions. Cash generated from operations, along with our existing cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, are our primary sources of operating liquidity, and we believe that our operating liquidity is sufficient to support our current business operations, including debt service and capital expenditure requirements. On June 29, 2017, we entered into the 2017 Credit Agreement with certain lenders, and terminated our Prior Credit Agreement. The 2017 Credit Agreement was amended on January 31, 2018 (the 2018 Amendment ). Further discussion of our 2017 Credit Agreement and 2018 Amendment appears below, under Financing Arrangements . We have historically expanded our business in part by investing in strategic growth initiatives, including acquisitions of products, technologies, and businesses. We may finance such acquisitions using cash, debt, stock, or a combination of the foregoing, however, we have used cash as consideration for substantially all of our historical business acquisitions, including approximately $103 million and $142 million of net cash expended for business acquisitions during the years ended January 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. We continually examine our options with respect to terms and sources of existing and future short-term and long-term capital resources to enhance our operating results and to ensure that we retain financial flexibility, and may from time to time elect to raise additional equity or debt capital in the capital markets. A considerable portion of our operating income is earned outside the United States. Cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, and restricted cash and bank time deposits (excluding any long-term portions) held by our subsidiaries outside of the United States were $346.2 million and $282.1 million as of January 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and are generally used to fund the subsidiaries operating requirements and to invest in growth initiatives, including business acquisitions. These 50 Table of Contents subsidiaries also held long-term restricted cash and bank time deposits of $28.4 million and $54.5 million at January 31, 2018 and January 31, 2017, respectively. While we intend to continue to indefinitely reinvest a portion of our foreign subsidiaries earnings, we currently no longer intend to indefinitely invest all such earnings, which, as a result of the 2017 Tax Act, may now be repatriated without incurring additional U.S. federal income taxes. Accordingly, we recognized provisional deferred income tax expense of $15.0 million for the year ended January 31, 2018 for withholding taxes on certain unremitted foreign earnings, for which we are evaluating our plans for repatriation. Should other circumstances arise whereby we require more capital in the United States than is generated by our domestic operations, or should we otherwise consider it in our best interests, we could repatriate future earnings from foreign jurisdictions, which could result in higher effective tax rates. We currently intend to indefinitely reinvest a portion of the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to finance foreign activities. Except to the extent of the U.S. federal tax provided under the 2017 Tax Act and withholding taxes on certain identified cash that may be repatriated to the U.S., we have not provided for taxes on the outside basis difference of foreign subsidiaries nor have we provided for any additional withholding or other tax that may be applicable should a future distribution be made from any unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries. It is not practical to estimate this potential liability. The following table summarizes our total cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and bank time deposits, and short-term investments, as well as our total debt, as of January 31, 2018 and 2017: January 31, (in thousands) 2018 2017 Cash and cash equivalents $ 337,942 $ 307,363 Restricted cash and bank time deposits (excluding long term portions) 33,303 9,198 Short-term investments 6,566 3,184 Total cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and bank time deposits, and short-term investments $ 377,811 $ 319,745 Total debt, including current maturities $ 772,984 $ 748,871 Consolidated Cash Flow Activity The following table summarizes selected items from our consolidated statements of cash flows for the years ended January 31, 2018 , 2017 , and 2016 : Year Ended January 31, (in thousands) 2018 2017 2016 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 176,327 $ 172,415 $ 156,903 Net cash used in investing activities (144,481 ) (156,028 ) (75,600 ) Net cash used in financing activities (5,503 ) (56,919 ) (10,204 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 4,236 (4,210 ) (4,066 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 30,579 $ (44,742 ) $ 67,033 Our operating activities generated $176.3 million of cash during the year ended January 31, 2018, which was partially offset by $150.0 million of net cash used in combined investing and financing activities during this period. Further discussion of these items appears below. Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities is driven primarily by our net income or loss, as adjusted for non-cash items, and working capital changes. Operating activities generated $176.3 million of net cash during the year ended January 31, 2018 , compared to $172.4 million generated during the year ended January 31, 2017 . Our improved operating cash flow in the current year reflects, in part, $3.6 million of lower combined interest and net income tax payments, compared to the prior year. Operating activities generated $172.4 million of net cash during the year ended January 31, 2017, compared to $156.9 million generated during the year ended January 31, 2016. Our operating cash flow improved, despite reporting a net loss in the year 51 Table of Contents ended January 31, 2017, compared to net income in the prior year, and despite $12.4 million of higher net income tax payments. Our cash flow from operating activities can fluctuate from period to period due to several factors, including the timing of our billings and collections, the timing and amounts of interest, income tax and other payments, and our operating results. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities During the year ended January 31, 2018, our investing activities used $144.5 million of net cash, including $103.0 million of net cash utilized for business acquisitions, $38.7 million of payments for property, equipment, and capitalized software development costs, $3.2 million of net purchases of short-term investments, and $1.7 million of net cash used by other investing activities. Partially offsetting those uses was a $2.1 million decrease in restricted cash and bank time deposits during the period. Restricted cash and bank time deposits are typically short-term deposits used to secure bank guarantees in connection with sales contracts, the amounts of which will fluctuate from period to period. During the year ended January 31, 2017, our investing activities used $156.0 million of net cash, including $141.8 million of net cash utilized for business acquisitions, $29.9 million of payments for property, equipment, and capitalized software development costs, and a $36.6 million increase in restricted cash and bank time deposits during the period. The increase in restricted cash and bank time deposits during the year ended January 31, 2017 reflected increased restricted cash associated with several large sales contracts. Partially offsetting those uses were $52.6 million of net proceeds from sales, maturities, and purchases of short-term investments. During the year ended January 31, 2016, our investing activities used $75.6 million of net cash, the primary components of which were $31.4 million of net cash utilized for business acquisitions, $30.3 million of payments for property, equipment, and capitalized software development costs, and $21.4 million of net purchases of short-term investments during the year. Partially offsetting those uses was $7.5 million of net cash provided by other investing activities, consisting primarily of decreases in restricted cash and bank time deposits during the period. We had no significant commitments for capital expenditures at January 31, 2018. Net Cash Used in Financing Activities For the year ended January 31, 2018, our financing activities used $5.5 million of net cash. Under the 2017 Credit Agreement, we received net proceeds of $424.5 million from the 2017 Term Loan, the majority of which was used to repay all $406.9 million that remained outstanding under the 2014 Term Loans (both the 2017 Term Loan and the 2014 Term Loans are as defined in Note 6, Long-Term Debt to our consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this report) at June 29, 2017 upon termination of the Prior Credit Agreement. In addition, under the 2018 Amendment, $19.9 million of the 2017 Term Loan was considered extinguished and replaced by new loans. We also made $5.1 million for repayments of borrowings and other financing obligations during the year. Other financing activities during the year included payments of $7.5 million for the financing portion of payments under contingent consideration arrangements related to prior business combinations, $7.1 million paid for debt issuance costs related to the 2017 Credit Agreement, and dividend payments of $3.3 million to the noncontrolling interest holders in a joint venture which serves as a systems integrator for certain Asian markets. For the year ended January 31, 2017, our financing activities used $56.9 million of net cash, the most significant portions of which were payments of $46.9 million for stock repurchases under our share repurchase program, $3.3 million for repayments of borrowings and other financing obligations, $3.2 million for the financing portion of payments under contingent consideration arrangements related to prior business combinations, and dividend payments of $2.4 million to the noncontrolling interest holders in our joint venture. For the year ended January 31, 2016, our financing activities used $10.2 million of net cash, including payments of $7.2 million for the financing portion of payments under contingent consideration arrangements related to prior business combinations, and dividend payments of $3.2 million to the noncontrolling interest holders in our joint venture. Liquidity and Capital Resources Requirements Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe that our cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet anticipated operating costs, required payments of principal and interest, working capital needs, ordinary course capital expenditures, research and development spending, and other 52 Table of Contents commitments for at least the next 12 months. Currently, we have no plans to pay any cash dividends on our common stock, which are not permitted under our 2017 Credit Agreement. Our liquidity could be negatively impacted by a decrease in demand for our products and service and support, including the impact of changes in customer buying behavior due to circumstances over which we have no control. If we determine to make additional business acquisitions or otherwise require additional funds, we may need to raise additional capital, which could involve the issuance of additional equity or debt securities. On March 29, 2016, we announced that our board of directors had authorized a common stock repurchase program of up to $150 million over two years. This program expires on March 29, 2018. We have made a total of $46.9 million in repurchases under the program. Financing Arrangements 1.50% Convertible Senior Notes On June 18, 2014, we issued $400.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 1.50% convertible senior notes due June 1, 2021, unless earlier converted by the holders pursuant to their terms. Net proceeds from the Notes after underwriting discounts were $391.9 million. The Notes pay interest in cash semiannually in arrears at a rate of 1.50% per annum. The Notes were issued concurrently with our public issuance of 5,750,000 shares of common stock, the majority of the combined net proceeds of which were used to partially repay certain indebtedness under our Prior Credit Agreement. The Notes are unsecured and rank senior in right of payment to our indebtedness that is expressly subordinated in right of payment to the Notes; equal in right of payment to our indebtedness that is not so subordinated; effectively subordinated in right of payment to any of our secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness; and structurally subordinated to indebtedness and other liabilities of our subsidiaries. The Notes are convertible into, at our election, cash, shares of common stock, or a combination of both, subject to satisfaction of specified conditions and during specified periods, as described below. If converted, we currently intend to pay cash in respect of the principal amount of the Notes. The Notes have a conversion rate of 15.5129 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of Notes, which represents an effective conversion price of approximately $64.46 per share of common stock and would result in the issuance of approximately 6,205,000 shares if all of the Notes were converted. The conversion rate has not changed since issuance of the Notes, although throughout the term of the Notes, the conversion rate may be adjusted upon the occurrence of certain events. Holders may surrender their Notes for conversion at any time prior to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding December 1, 2020, only under the following circumstances: during any calendar quarter commencing after the calendar quarter which ended on September 30, 2014, if the closing sale price of our common stock, for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) in the period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter, is more than 130% of the conversion price of the Notes in effect on each applicable trading day; during the ten consecutive trading-day period following any five consecutive trading-day period in which the trading price for the Notes for each such trading day was less than 98% of the closing sale price of our common stock on such date multiplied by the then-current conversion rate; or upon the occurrence of specified corporate events, as described in the indenture governing the Notes, such as a consolidation, merger, or binding share exchange. On or after December 1, 2020 until the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding the maturity date, holders may surrender their Notes for conversion regardless of whether any of the foregoing conditions have been satisfied. Holders of the Notes may require us to purchase for cash all or any portion of their Notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes being purchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest. As of January 31, 2018, the Notes were not convertible. 53 Table of Contents Note Hedges and Warrants Concurrently with the issuance of the Notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions (the Note Hedges ) and sold warrants (the Warrants ). The combination of the Note Hedges and the Warrants serves to increase the effective initial conversion price for the Notes to $75.00 per share. The Note Hedges and Warrants are each separate instruments from the Notes. Note Hedges Pursuant to the Note Hedges, we purchased call options on our common stock, under which we have the right to acquire from the counterparties up to approximately 6,205,000 shares of our common stock, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, at a price of $64.46, which equals the initial conversion price of the Notes. Our exercise rights under the Note Hedges generally trigger upon conversion of the Notes and the Note Hedges terminate upon maturity of the Notes, or the first day the Notes are no longer outstanding. The Note Hedges may be settled in cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination thereof, at our option, and are intended to reduce our exposure to potential dilution upon conversion of the Notes. We paid $60.8 million for the Note Hedges, which was recorded as a reduction to additional paid-in capital. As of January 31, 2018, we had not purchased any shares of our common stock under the Note Hedges. Warrants We sold the Warrants to several counterparties. The Warrants provide the counterparties rights to acquire from us up to approximately 6,205,000 shares of our common stock at a price of $75.00 per share. The Warrants expire incrementally on a series of expiration dates beginning in August 2021. At expiration, if the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the strike price of the Warrants, we will be obligated to issue shares of our common stock having a value equal to such excess. The Warrants could have a dilutive effect on net income per share to the extent that the market value of our common stock exceeds the strike price of the Warrants. Proceeds from the sale of the Warrants were $45.2 million and were recorded as additional paid-in capital. As of January 31, 2018, no Warrants had been exercised and all Warrants remained outstanding. Credit Agreements On June 29, 2017, we entered into the 2017 Credit Agreement with certain lenders, and terminated our Prior Credit Agreement. The 2017 Credit Agreement provides for $725.0 million of senior secured credit facilities, comprised of the $425.0 million 2017 Term Loan maturing on June 29, 2024 and a $300.0 million revolving credit facility maturing on June 29, 2022 (the 2017 Revolving Credit Facility ), subject to increase and reduction from time to time according to the terms of the 2017 Credit Agreement. The majority of the proceeds from the 2017 Term Loan were used to repay all $406.9 million that remained outstanding under the 2014 Term Loans at June 29, 2017 upon termination of the Prior Credit Agreement. There were no borrowings under our Prior Revolving Credit Facility (as defined in Note 6, Long-Term Debt to our consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this report) at June 29, 2017. The maturity dates of the 2017 Term Loan and 2017 Revolving Credit Facility will be accelerated to March 1, 2021 if on such date any Notes remain outstanding. The 2017 Term Loan was subject to an original issuance discount of approximately $0.5 million. This discount is being amortized as interest expense over the term of the 2017 Term Loan using the effective interest method. Interest rates on loans under the 2017 Credit Agreement are periodically reset, at our option, at either a Eurodollar Rate or an ABR rate (each as defined in the 2017 Credit Agreement), plus in each case a margin. We are required to pay a commitment fee with respect to unused availability under the 2017 Revolving Credit Facility at a rate per annum determined by reference to our Consolidated Total Debt to Consolidated EBITDA (each as defined in the 2017 Credit Agreement) leverage ratio (the Leverage Ratio ). The 2017 Term Loan requires quarterly principal payments of approximately $1.1 million, which commenced on August 1, 2017, with the remaining balance due on June 29, 2024. Optional prepayments of loans under the 2017 Credit Agreement are generally permitted without premium or penalty. On January 31, 2018, we entered into the 2018 Amendment to our 2017 Credit Agreement, providing for, among other things, a reduction of the interest rate margins on the 2017 Term Loan from 2.25% to 2.00% for Eurodollar loans, and from 1.25% to 54 Table of Contents 1.00% for ABR loans. The vast majority of the impact of the 2018 Amendment was accounted for as a debt modification. For the portion of the 2017 Term Loan which was considered extinguished and replaced by new loans, we wrote off $0.2 million of unamortized deferred debt issuance costs as a loss on early retirement of debt during the three months ended January 31, 2018. The remaining unamortized deferred debt issuance costs and discount will continue to be amortized over the remaining term of the 2017 Term Loan. For loans under the 2017 Revolving Credit Facility, the margin is determined by reference to our Leverage Ratio. As of January 31, 2018, the interest rate on the 2017 Term Loan was 3.58% . Taking into account the impact of the original issuance discount and related deferred debt issuance costs, the effective interest rate on the 2017 Term Loan was approximately 3.80% at January 31, 2018. On February 11, 2016, we executed a pay-fixed, receive-variable interest rate swap agreement with a multinational financial institution to partially mitigate risks associated with the variable interest rate on the term loans under our Prior Credit Agreement, under which we pay interest at a fixed rate of 4.143% and receive variable interest of three-month LIBOR (subject to a minimum of 0.75%), plus a spread of 2.75%, on a notional amount of $200.0 million. Although the Prior Credit Agreement was terminated on June 29, 2017, the interest rate swap agreement remains in effect, and serves as an economic hedge to partially mitigate the risk of higher borrowing costs under the 2017 Credit Agreement resulting from increases in market interest rates. The interest rate swap agreement is no longer formally designated as a cash flow hedge for accounting purposes, and therefore settlements are reported within other income (expense), net on the consolidated statement of operations, not within interest expense. Our obligations under the 2017 Credit Agreement are guaranteed by each of our direct and indirect existing and future material domestic wholly owned restricted subsidiaries, and are secured by a security interest in substantially all of our assets and the assets of the guarantor subsidiaries, subject to certain exceptions. The 2017 Credit Agreement contains certain customary affirmative and negative covenants for credit facilities of this type. The 2017 Credit Agreement also contains a financial covenant that, solely with respect to the 2017 Revolving Credit Facility, requires us to maintain a Leverage Ratio of no greater than 4.50 to 1. At January 31, 2018, our Leverage Ratio was approximately 2.7 to 1. The limitations imposed by the covenants are subject to certain exceptions as detailed in the 2017 Credit Agreement. The 2017 Credit Agreement provides for events of default with corresponding grace periods that we believe are customary for credit facilities of this type. Upon an event of default, all of our obligations owed under the 2017 Credit Agreement may be declared immediately due and payable, and the lenders commitments to make loans under the 2017 Credit Agreement may be terminated. Contractual Obligations At January 31, 2018, our contractual obligations were as follows: Payments Due by Period (in thousands) Total < 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years > 5 years Long-term debt obligations, including interest $ 944,103 $ 25,741 $ 51,055 $ 441,347 $ 425,960 Operating lease obligations 116,632 21,497 32,223 25,786 37,126 Capital lease obligations 4,699 1,171 2,053 1,475 Purchase obligations 109,383 104,398 4,983 2 Other long-term obligations 660 374 94 94 98 Total contractual obligations $ 1,175,477 $ 153,181 $ 90,408 $ 468,704 $ 463,184 The long-term debt obligations reflected above include projected interest payments over the term of our outstanding debt as of January 31, 2018, assuming interest rates consistent with those in effect for our 2017 Term Loan as of January 31, 2018. Operating lease obligations reflected above exclude future sublease income from certain space we have subleased to third parties. As of January 31, 2018, total expected future sublease income was $0.4 million and will range from $0.1 million to $0.3 million on an annual basis through May 2019. We entered into leases for infrastructure equipment that qualify as capital leases during the year ended January 31, 2018. 55 Table of Contents Our purchase obligations are associated with agreements for purchases of goods or services generally including agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum, or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transactions. Agreements to purchase goods or services that have cancellation provisions with no penalties are excluded from these purchase obligations. Our consolidated balance sheet at January 31, 2018 included $41.0 million of non-current tax reserves, net of related benefits (including interest and penalties of $5.6 million ) for uncertain tax positions. However, these amounts are not included in the table above because we are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of payments for these obligations. We do not expect to make any significant payments for these uncertain tax positions within the next 12 months. Contingent Payments Associated with Business Combinations In connection with certain of our business combinations, we have agreed to make contingent cash payments to the former owners of the acquired companies based upon achievement of performance targets following the acquisition dates. For the year ended January 31, 2018, we made $9.4 million of payments under contingent consideration arrangements. As of January 31, 2018, potential future cash payments under contingent consideration arrangements, including consideration earned in completed performance periods which is still to be paid, total $123.6 million, the estimated fair value of which was $62.8 million , including $13.7 million reported in accrued expenses and other current liabilities, and $49.1 million reported in other liabilities. The performance periods associated with these potential payments extend through January 2022. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of January 31, 2018 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that we believe have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenue or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See also Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this report for additional information about recent accounting pronouncements recently adopted and those not yet effective. 
