CIK: 1331875
Company Name: FIDELITY NATIONAL FINANCIAL INC 
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2016-02-23
Accession Number: 0001331875-16-000111


Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Business Trends and Conditions. Black Knight Black Knight's technology and research and development activities relate primarily to the design, development and enhancement of our processing systems and related software applications. We expect to continue our practice of investing an appropriate level of resources to maintain, enhance and extend the functionality of our proprietary systems and existing software applications, to develop new and innovative software applications and systems in response to the needs of our clients, and to enhance the capabilities surrounding our infrastructure. We work with our clients to determine the appropriate timing and approach to introducing technology or infrastructure changes to our applications and services. We have made enhancements to certain of our systems to comply with the CFPB's Integrated Mortgage Disclosure rules that went into effect on October 3, 2015. See further discussion of the new rules in Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Business Trends and Conditions. Investment Policies and Investment Portfolio Our investment policy is designed to maximize total return through investment income and capital appreciation consistent with moderate risk of principal, while providing adequate liquidity. Our insurance subsidiaries, including title insurers, underwritten 12 Table of Contents title companies and insurance agencies, are subject to extensive regulation under applicable state laws. The various states in which we operate our underwriters regulate the types of assets that qualify for purposes of capital, surplus, and statutory unearned premium reserves. Our investment policy specifically limits duration and non-investment grade allocations in the FNF core fixed-income portfolio. Maintaining shorter durations on the investment portfolio allows for the mitigation of interest rate risk. Equity securities and preferred stock are utilized to take advantage of perceived value or for strategic purposes. Due to the magnitude of the investment portfolio in relation to our claims loss reserves, durations of investments are not specifically matched to the cash outflows required to pay claims. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014 , the carrying amount of total investments, which approximates the fair value, excluding investments in unconsolidated affiliates, was $ 4.3 billion and $ 3.9 billion, respectively. We purchase investment grade fixed maturity securities, selected non-investment grade fixed maturity securities, preferred stock and equity securities. The securities in our portfolio are subject to economic conditions and normal market risks and uncertainties. The following table presents certain information regarding the investment ratings of our fixed maturity securities and preferred stock portfolio at December 31, 2015 and 2014 : December 31, 2015 2014 Amortized % of Fair % of Amortized % of Fair % of Rating(1) Cost Total Value Total Cost Total Value Total (Dollars in millions) Aaa/AAA $ 439 15.4 % $ 430 15.1 % $ 373 11.7 % $ 379 11.7 % Aa/AA 553 19.4 565 19.9 701 22.0 721 22.2 A 930 32.6 943 33.1 1,061 33.3 1,085 33.4 Baa/BBB 744 26.1 744 26.1 764 24.0 778 24.0 Ba/BB/B 84 3.0 80 2.8 186 5.8 184 5.7 Lower 58 2.0 39 1.4 60 1.9 60 1.8 Other (2) 44 1.5 46 1.6 41 1.3 41 1.2 $ 2,852 100.0 % $ 2,847 100.0 % $ 3,186 100.0 % $ 3,248 100.0 % ______________________________________ (1) Ratings as assigned by Moody Investors Service or Standard & Poor Ratings Group if a Moody's rating is unavailable. (2) This category is composed of unrated securities. The following table presents certain information regarding contractual maturities of our fixed maturity securities: December 31, 2015 Amortized % of Fair % of Maturity Cost Total Value Total (Dollars in millions) One year or less $ 405 15.8 % $ 404 15.8 % After one year through five years 1,829 71.4 1,828 71.5 After five years through ten years 232 9.1 229 9.0 After ten years 26 1.0 26 1.0 Mortgage-backed/asset-backed securities 68 2.7 71 2.8 $ 2,560 100 % $ 2,558 100 % At December 31, 2015 , all of our mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities are rated AAA by Moody's. The mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities are made up of $ 49 million of agency-backed mortgage-backed securities, $ 8 million of agency-backed collateralized mortgage obligations, and $ 14 million in asset-backed securities. Expected maturities may differ from contractual maturities because certain borrowers have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties. Because of the potential for prepayment on mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, they are not categorized by contractual maturity. Our equity securities at December 31, 2015 and 2014 consisted of investments with a cost basis of $ 276 million and $ 72 million , respectively, and fair value of $ 345 million and $ 145 million , respectively. 13 Table of Contents At December 31, 2015 and 2014 , we also held $ 521 million and $ 770 million, respectively, in investments that are accounted for using the equity method of accounting, principally our ownership interests in Ceridian. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014 , other long-term investments included investments accounted for using the cost method of accounting of $ 74 million and $ 144 million, as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Short-term investments, which consist primarily of commercial paper and money market instruments which have an original maturity of one year or less, are carried at amortized cost, which approximates fair value. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014 , short-term investments amounted to $ 1,034 million and $ 334 million, respectively. Our investment results for the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 were as follows: December 31, 2015 2014 2013 (Dollars in millions) Net investment income (1) $ 137 $ 139 $ 147 Average invested assets $ 4,020 $ 3,819 $ 3,627 Effective return on average invested assets 3.4 % 3.6 % 4.1 % ______________________________________ (1) Net investment income as reported in our Consolidated Statements of Earnings has been adjusted in the presentation above to provide the tax equivalent yield on tax exempt investments. Loss Reserves For information about our loss reserves, see Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates. Geographic Operations Our direct title operations are divided into approximately 150 profit centers. Each profit center processes title insurance transactions within its geographical area, which is usually identified by a county, a group of counties forming a region, or a state, depending on the management structure in that part of the country. We also transact title insurance business through a network of approximately 5,000 agents, primarily in those areas in which agents are the more prevalent title insurance provider. Substantially all of our revenues are generated in the United States. The following table sets forth the approximate dollar and percentage volumes of our title insurance premium revenue by state: Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 Amount % Amount % Amount % (Dollars in millions) California $ 649 15.1 % $ 552 15.0 % $ 632 15.2 % Texas 616 14.4 567 15.4 597 14.4 New York 349 8.1 289 7.9 305 7.4 Florida 349 8.1 286 7.8 316 7.6 Illinois 243 5.7 214 5.8 222 5.3 All others 2,080 48.6 1,763 48.1 2,080 50.1 Totals $ 4,286 100.0 % $ 3,671 100.0 % $ 4,152 100.0 % Our Restaurant Group operates and franchises restaurants in 42 states throughout the United States. All of our Restaurant Group's revenues are generated in those states. Employees As of January 22, 2016, we had 54,091 full-time equivalent employees, which includes 20,681 in our Title segment, 28,414 in our Restaurant Group segment, 4,099 in the Black Knight segment and 897 in our remaining businesses. We monitor our staffing levels based on current economic activity. None of our employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. We believe that our relations with employees are generally good. Financial Information by Operating Segment For financial information by operating segment, see Note R of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 14 Table of Contents Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information The statements contained in this Form 10-K or in our other documents or in oral presentations or other statements made by our management that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including statements regarding our expectations, hopes, intentions, or strategies regarding the future. These statements relate to, among other things, future financial and operating results of the Company. In many cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, or continue, or the negative of these terms and other comparable terminology. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these statements as a result of a number of factors, including, but not limited to the following: changes in general economic, business, and political conditions, including changes in the financial markets; the severity of our title insurance claims; downgrade of our credit rating by rating agencies; adverse changes in the level of real estate activity, which may be caused by, among other things, high or increasing interest rates, a limited supply of mortgage funding, increased mortgage defaults, or a weak U.S. economy; compliance with extensive government regulation of our operating subsidiaries and adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations or in their application by regulators; regulatory investigations of the title insurance industry; loss of key personnel that could negatively affect our financial results and impair our operating abilities; our business concentration in the States of California and Texas are the source of approximately 15.1% and 14.4% , respectively, of our title insurance premiums; our potential inability to find suitable acquisition candidates, as well as the risks associated with acquisitions in lines of business that will not necessarily be limited to our traditional areas of focus, or difficulties integrating acquisitions; our dependence on distributions from our title insurance underwriters as our main source of cash flow; competition from other title insurance companies; and other risks detailed in "Risk Factors" below and elsewhere in this document and in our other filings with the SEC. We are not under any obligation (and expressly disclaim any such obligation) to update or alter our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You should carefully consider the possibility that actual results may differ materially from our forward-looking statements. Additional Information Our website address is www.fnf.com. We make available free of charge on or through our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. However, the information found on our website is not part of this or any other report. Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed below and others described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the risks described herein could result in a significant or material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. General We have recorded goodwill as a result of prior acquisitions, and an economic downturn could cause these balances to become impaired, requiring write-downs that would reduce our operating income. Goodwill aggregated approximately $ 4,760 million, or 34.2% of our total assets, as of December 31, 2015 . Current accounting rules require that goodwill be assessed for impairment at least annually or whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable from estimated future cash flows. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstance indicating the carrying value of our intangible assets, including goodwill, may not be recoverable include, but are not limited to, significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, a significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization, and negative industry or economic trends. No goodwill impairment charge was recorded in 2015 . However, if there is an economic downturn in the future, the carrying amount of our goodwill may no longer be recoverable, and we may be required to record an impairment charge, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We will continue to monitor our market capitalization and the impact of the economy to determine if there is an impairment of goodwill in future periods. Our management has articulated a willingness to seek growth through acquisitions in lines of business that will not necessarily be limited to our traditional areas of focus or geographic areas. This expansion of our business subjects us to associated 15 Table of Contents risks, such as the diversion of management attention and lack of experience in operating such businesses, and may affect our credit and ability to repay our debt. Our management has stated that we may make acquisitions in lines of business that are not directly tied to or synergistic with our core operations. Accordingly, we have in the past acquired, and may in the future acquire, businesses in industries or geographic areas with which management is less familiar than we are with our core businesses. These activities involve risks that could adversely affect our operating results, such as diversion of management attention and lack of substantial experience in operating such businesses. There can be no guarantee that we will not enter into transactions or make acquisitions that will cause us to incur additional debt, increase our exposure to market and other risks and cause our credit or financial strength ratings to decline. We are a holding company and depend on distributions from our subsidiaries for cash. We are a holding company whose primary assets are the securities of our operating subsidiaries. Our ability to pay interest on our outstanding debt and our other obligations and to pay dividends is dependent on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions or payments to us. If our operating subsidiaries are not able to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to meet our obligations or pay dividends on our common stock. Our title insurance subsidiaries must comply with state laws which require them to maintain minimum amounts of working capital, surplus and reserves, and place restrictions on the amount of dividends that they can distribute to us. Compliance with these laws will limit the amounts our regulated subsidiaries can dividend to us. During 2016 , our title insurers may pay dividends or make distributions to us of approximately $ 334 million, however, insurance regulators have the authority to prohibit the payment of ordinary dividends or other payments by our title insurers to us if they determine that such payment could be adverse to our policyholders. The maximum dividend permitted by law is not necessarily indicative of an insurer actual ability to pay dividends, which may be constrained by business and regulatory considerations, such as the impact of dividends on surplus, which could affect an insurer ratings or competitive position, the amount of premiums that can be written and the ability to pay future dividends. Further, depending on business and regulatory conditions, we may in the future need to retain cash in our underwriters or even contribute cash to one or more of them in order to maintain their ratings or their statutory capital position. Such a requirement could be the result of investment losses, reserve charges, adverse operating conditions in the current economic environment or changes in interpretation of statutory accounting requirements by regulators. The loss of key personnel could negatively affect our financial results and impair our operating abilities. Our success substantially depends on our ability to attract and retain key members of our senior management team and officers. If we lose one or more of these key employees, our operating results and in turn the value of our common stock could be materially adversely affected. Although we have employment agreements with many of our officers, there can be no assurance that the entire term of the employment agreement will be served or that the employment agreement will be renewed upon expiration. Failure of our information security systems or processes could result in a loss or disclosure of confidential information, damage to our reputation, monetary losses, additional costs and impairment of our ability to conduct business effectively. Our core operations are highly dependent upon the effective operation of our computer systems. As part of our core operations, we electronically receive, process, store and transmit sensitive personal consumer data (such as names and addresses, social security numbers, driver's license numbers, credit card and bank account information) and important business information of our customers. We also electronically manage substantial cash, investment asset and escrow account balances on behalf of ourselves and our customers, as well as financial information about our businesses generally. The integrity of our information systems and the protection of the information that resides on such systems are important to our successful operation. If we fail to maintain an adequate security infrastructure, adapt to emerging security threats or follow our internal business processes with respect to security, the information or assets we hold could be compromised. Further, even if we (or third parties to which we outsource certain IT services) maintain a reasonable, industry standard information security infrastructure, it is possible that unauthorized persons still could obtain access to information or assets we hold. These risks are increased when we transmit information over the internet and due to increasing security risks posed by organized crime. While, to date, we believe that we have not experienced a material breach of our information security systems, the existence or scope of such events is not always apparent. If additional information regarding an incident previously considered immaterial is discovered, or a new event were to occur, it could potentially have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, some laws and certain of our contracts require notification of various parties, including consumers or customers, in the event that confidential or personal information has or may have been taken or accessed by unauthorized third parties. Such notifications can result, among other things, in adverse publicity, distraction of management's time and energy, the attention of regulatory authorities, and fines and disruptions in sales, the effects of which may be material. Further, our financial institution customers have obligations to safeguard their information technology systems and information. In certain of our businesses, we are bound contractually and/or by regulation to comply with the same requirements. If we fail to comply with these regulations and requirements, we could be exposed to suits for breach of contract, governmental proceedings or the imposition of fines. In addition, if more restrictive privacy laws, rules or industry security requirements are 16 Table of Contents adopted in the future on the federal or state level or by a specific industry in which we do business, that could have an adverse impact on us through increased costs or restrictions on business processes. Any inability to prevent security or privacy breaches, or the perception that such breaches may occur, could inhibit our ability to retain existing customers or attract new customers and/or result in financial losses, litigation, increased costs or other adverse consequences to our business. If economic and credit market conditions deteriorate, it could have a material adverse impact on our investment portfolio. Our investment portfolio is exposed to economic and financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, credit markets and prices of marketable equity and fixed-income securities. Our investment policy is designed to maximize total return through investment income and capital appreciation consistent with moderate risk of principal, while providing adequate liquidity and complying with internal and regulatory guidelines. To achieve this objective, our marketable debt investments are primarily investment grade, liquid, fixed-income securities and money market instruments denominated in U.S. dollars. We make investments in certain equity securities and preferred stock in order to take advantage of perceived value and for strategic purposes. In the past, economic and credit market conditions have adversely affected the ability of some issuers of investment securities to repay their obligations and have affected the values of investment securities. If the carrying value of our investments exceeds the fair value, and the decline in fair value is deemed to be other-than-temporary, we will be required to write down the value of our investments, which could have a material negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. W e own a minority interest in Ceridian, a leading provider of global human capital management and payment solutions. If the fair value of this company were to decline below book value, we would be required to write down the value of our investment, which could have a material negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. If this company were to experience significant negative volatility in its results of operations it would have a material adverse effect on our own results of operations due to our inclusion of our portion of its earnings in our results of operations. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our indebtedness. As of December 31, 2015, our outstanding debt was $2,793 million , including $1,403 million in variable rate debt. Our high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including the following: (i) a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations is dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available for operations, future business opportunities and capital expenditures; (ii) our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate purposes in the future may be limited; (iii) certain of the borrowings are at variable rates of interest, which will increase our vulnerability to increases in interest rates; (iv) we may be unable to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions; (v) the debt service requirements of our other indebtedness could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations; and (vi) we may be vulnerable in a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business and we may be unable to carry out activities that are important to our growth. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, or to pay interest on, or to refinance indebtedness depends on and is subject to our financial and operating performance, which in turn is affected by general and regional economic, financial, competitive, business and other factors beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs, we will need to restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt, which could cause us to default on our obligations and impair our liquidity. Any refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more stringent covenants that could further restrict our business operations. We from time to time may increase the amount of our indebtedness, modify the terms of our financing arrangements, issue dividends, make capital expenditures and take other actions that may substantially increase our leverage. Title If adverse changes in the levels of real estate activity occur, our revenues may decline. Title insurance revenue is closely related to the level of real estate activity which includes sales, mortgage financing and mortgage refinancing. The levels of real estate activity are primarily affected by the average price of real estate sales, the availability of funds to finance purchases and mortgage interest rates. We have found that residential real estate activity generally decreases in the following situations: when mortgage interest rates are high or increasing; when the mortgage funding supply is limited; and when the United States economy is weak, including high unemployment levels. Declines in the level of real estate activity or the average price of real estate sales are likely to adversely affect our title insurance revenues. The Mortgage Bankers Association's ("MBA") Mortgage Finance Forecast as of February 18, 2016 estimates an approximately $ 1.5 trillion mortgage origination market for 2016 , which would be a decrease of 6.3% from 2015 . The MBA forecasts that the 6.3% decrease will result from a decrease in refinance activity, offset by a slight increase in forecast purchase 17 Table of Contents transactions. Our revenues in future periods will continue to be subject to these and other factors which are beyond our control and, as a result, are likely to fluctuate. If financial institutions at which we hold escrow funds fail, it could have a material adverse impact on our company. We hold customers' assets in escrow at various financial institutions, pending completion of real estate transactions. These assets are maintained in segregated bank accounts and have not been included in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. We have a contingent liability relating to proper disposition of these balances for our customers, which amounted to $ 14.3 billion at December 31, 2015 . Failure of one or more of these financial institutions may lead us to become liable for the funds owed to third parties and there is no guarantee that we would recover the funds deposited, whether through Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation coverage or otherwise. If we experience changes in the rate or severity of title insurance claims, it may be necessary for us to record additional charges to our claim loss reserve. This may result in lower net earnings and the potential for earnings volatility. By their nature, claims are often complex, vary greatly in dollar amounts and are affected by economic and market conditions and the legal environment existing at the time of settlement of the claims. Estimating future title loss payments is difficult because of the complex nature of title claims, the long periods of time over which claims are paid, significantly varying dollar amounts of individual claims and other factors. From time to time, we experience large losses or an overall worsening of our loss payment experience in regard to the frequency or severity of claims that require us to record additional charges to our claims loss reserve. There are currently pending several large claims which we believe can be defended successfully without material loss payments. However, if unanticipated material payments are required to settle these claims, it could result in or contribute to additional charges to our claim loss reserves. These loss events are unpredictable and adversely affect our earnings. At each quarter end, our recorded reserve for claim losses is initially the result of taking the prior recorded reserve for claim losses, adding the current provision to that balance and subtracting actual paid claims from that balance, resulting in an amount that management then compares to our actuary's central estimate provided in the actuarial calculation. Due to the uncertainty and judgment used by both management and our actuary, our ultimate liability may be greater or less than our current reserves and/or our actuary calculation. If the recorded amount is within a reasonable range of the actuary central estimate, but not at the central estimate, management assesses other factors in order to determine our best estimate. These factors, which are both qualitative and quantitative, can change from period to period and include items such as current trends in the real estate industry (which management can assess, but for which there is a time lag in the development of the data used by our actuary), any adjustments from the actuarial estimates needed for the effects of unusually large or small claims, improvements in our claims management processes, and other cost saving measures. Depending upon our assessment of these factors, we may or may not adjust the recorded reserve. If the recorded amount is not within a reasonable range of the actuary central estimate, we would record a charge or credit and reassess the provision rate on a go forward basis. Our average provision for claim losses was 5.7% of title premiums in 2015 . We will reassess the provision to be recorded in future periods consistent with this methodology and can make no assurance that we will not need to record additional charges in the future to increase reserves in respect of prior periods. Our insurance subsidiaries must comply with extensive regulations. These regulations may increase our costs or impede or impose burdensome conditions on actions that we might seek to take to increase the revenues of those subsidiaries. Our insurance businesses are subject to extensive regulation by state insurance authorities in each state in which they operate. These agencies have broad administrative and supervisory power relating to the following, among other matters: licensing requirements; trade and marketing practices; accounting and financing practices; disclosure requirements on key terms of mortgage loans; capital and surplus requirements; the amount of dividends and other payments made by insurance subsidiaries; investment practices; rate schedules; deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders; establishing reserves; and regulation of reinsurance. Most states also regulate insurance holding companies like us with respect to acquisitions, changes of control and the terms of transactions with our affiliates. State regulations may impede or impose burdensome conditions on our ability to increase or maintain rate levels or on other actions that we may want to take to enhance our operating results. In addition, we may incur significant costs in the course of complying with regulatory requirements. Further, various state legislatures have in the past considered offering a public alternative to the title industry in their states, as a means to increase state government revenues. 18 Table of Contents Although we think this situation is unlikely, if one or more such takeovers were to occur they could adversely affect our business. We cannot be assured that future legislative or regulatory changes will not adversely affect our business operations. See Item 1. Business Regulation. State regulation of the rates we charge for title insurance could adversely affect our results of operations. Our title insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive rate regulation by the applicable state agencies in the jurisdictions in which they operate. Title insurance rates are regulated differently in various states, with some states requiring the subsidiaries to file and receive approval of rates before such rates become effective and some states promulgating the rates that can be charged. In almost all states in which our title subsidiaries operate, our rates must not be excessive, inadequate or unfairly discriminatory. Regulatory investigations of the insurance industry may lead to fines, settlements, new regulation or legal uncertainty, which could negatively affect our results of operations. From time to time we receive inquiries and requests for information from state insurance departments, attorneys general and other regulatory agencies about various matters relating to our business. Sometimes these take the form of civil investigative demands or subpoenas. We cooperate with all such inquiries and we have responded to or are currently responding to inquiries from multiple governmental agencies. Also, regulators and courts have been dealing with issues arising from foreclosures and related processes and documentation. Various governmental entities are studying the title insurance product, market, pricing, and business practices, and potential regulatory and legislative changes, which may materially affect our business and operations. From time to time, we are assessed fines for violations of regulations or other matters or enter into settlements with such authorities which may require us to pay fines or claims or take other actions. Because we are dependent upon California and Texas for approximately 15.1% and 14.4% and of our title insurance premiums, respectively, our business may be adversely affected by regulatory conditions in Texas and/or California. California and Texas are the two largest sources of revenue for our title segment and, in 2015 , California-based premiums accounted for 29.0 % of premiums earned by our direct operations and 1.1% of our agency premium revenues. Texas-based premiums accounted for 17.7 % of premiums earned by our direct operations and 11.0% of our agency premium revenues. In the aggregate, California and Texas accounted for approximately 15.1% and 14.4% , respectively, of our total title insurance premiums for 2015 . A significant part of our revenues and profitability are therefore subject to our operations in California and Texas and to the prevailing regulatory conditions in California and Texas. Adverse regulatory developments in Texas and California, which could include reductions in the maximum rates permitted to be charged, inadequate rate increases or more fundamental changes in the design or implementation of the Texas and California title insurance regulatory framework, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If the rating agencies downgrade our insurance companies, our results of operations and competitive position in the title insurance industry may suffer. Ratings have always been an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Our title insurance subsidiaries are rated by S&P, Moody s, A.M. Best, and Demotech. Ratings reflect the opinion of a rating agency with regard to an insurance company or insurance holding company financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders and are not evaluations directed to investors. Our ratings are subject to continued periodic review by rating agencies and the continued retention of those ratings cannot be assured. If our ratings are reduced from their current levels by those entities, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Black Knight Black Knight's clients and Black Knight are subject to various governmental regulations, and a failure to comply with government regulations or changes in these regulations could result in penalties, restrict or limit it or its clients operations or make it more burdensome to conduct such operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Many of Black Knight's clients and its businesses are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. Black Knight's failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could restrict its ability to provide certain services or result in imposition of civil fines and criminal penalties, substantial regulatory and compliance costs, litigation expense, adverse publicity and loss of revenue. As a provider of electronic data processing to financial institutions, such as banks and credit unions, Black Knight is subject to regulatory oversight and examination by the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, an interagency body of the Federal Reserve Board, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, or the OCC, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or the FDIC, and various other federal and state regulatory authorities. In addition, independent auditors annually review several of the Black Knight operations to provide reports on internal controls for its clients auditors and regulators. Black Knight may be subject to review by state agencies that regulate banks in each state in which it conducts its electronic processing activities. 19 Table of Contents In addition, Black Knight is subject to an increasing degree of compliance oversight by regulators and by its clients. Specifically, the CFPB has authority to write rules affecting the business of, supervise, conduct examinations of, and enforce compliance as to federal consumer financial protection laws and regulations with respect to certain non-depository covered persons determined by the CFPB to be larger participants that offer consumer financial products and services. The CFPB and other financial institution regulators such as the OCC also have the authority to examine Black Knight in its role as a service provider to large financial institutions, although it is yet unclear how broadly they will apply this authority going forward. In addition, some of Black Knight's largest bank clients are subject to consent orders with the OCC and/or are parties to the National Mortgage Settlement, both of which require them to exercise greater oversight and perform more rigorous audits of their key vendors such as Black Knight. The Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, or RESPA, and related regulations generally prohibit the payment or receipt of fees or any other item of value for the referral of real estate-related settlement services. RESPA also prohibits fee shares or splits or unearned fees in connection with the provision of residential real estate settlement services, such as mortgage brokerage and real estate brokerage. Notwithstanding these prohibitions, RESPA permits payments for goods furnished or for services actually performed, so long as those payments bear a reasonable relationship to the market value of the goods or services provided. RESPA and related regulations may to some extent restrict our real estate-related businesses from entering into certain preferred alliance arrangements. The CFPB is responsible for enforcing RESPA. Changes to laws and regulations and enhanced regulatory oversight of our clients and us may compel us to increase our prices in certain situations or decrease our prices in other situations, may restrict our ability to implement price increases, or otherwise limit the manner in which Black Knight conducts its business. In addition, in response to increased regulatory oversight, participants in the mortgage lending industry may develop policies pursuant to which they limit the extent to which they can rely on any one vendor or service provider. If we are unable to adapt our products and services to conform to the new laws and regulations, or if these laws and regulations have a negative impact on our clients, we may experience client losses or increased operating costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Black Knight relies on its top clients for a significant portion of its revenue and profit, which makes it susceptible to the same macro-economic and regulatory factors that impact its clients. If these clients are negatively impacted by current economic or regulatory conditions or otherwise experience financial hardship or stress, or if the terms of its relationships with these clients change, it could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Black Knight operates in a consolidated industry and as a result, a small number of its clients have accounted for a significant portion of its revenues. We expect that a limited number of Black Knight's clients will continue to represent a significant portion of its revenues for the foreseeable future. During the year ended December 31, 2015, Black Knight's largest client, Wells Fargo, N.A., or Wells Fargo, accounted for approximately 12% of its consolidated revenues. During the year ended December 31, 2015, Black Knight's five largest clients accounted for approximately 37% of its consolidated revenues. Black Knight's clients face continued pressure in the current economic and regulatory climate. Many of Black Knight's relationships with these clients are long-standing and are important to its business and results of operations, but there is no guarantee that Black Knight will be able to retain or renew existing agreements or maintain its relationships on acceptable terms or at all. Additionally, Black Knight relies on cross-selling its products and services to its existing clients as a source of growth. The deterioration in or termination of any of these relationships could significantly reduce its revenue and could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result, Black Knight may be disproportionately affected by declining revenue from, or loss of, a significant Black Knight client. In addition, by virtue of their significant relationships with us, these clients may be able to exert pressure on Black Knight with respect to the pricing of their services. There may be consolidation in Black Knight's end client market, which would reduce the use of its services by its clients and could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Mergers or consolidations among existing or potential clients could reduce the number of Black Knight's clients and potential clients. If Black Knight's clients merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not Black Knight's clients, or that use fewer of Black Knight's services, they may discontinue or reduce their use of Black Knight's services. In addition, if potential clients merge, Black Knight's ability to increase its client base may be adversely affected and the ability of Black Knight's customers to exert pressure on Black Knight's pricing may increase. Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on Black Knight's business, financial condition and results of operations. If Black Knight fails to adapt its solutions to technological changes or evolving industry standards, or if Black Knight's ongoing efforts to upgrade its technology are not successful, Black Knight could lose clients and have difficulty attracting new clients for its solutions, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. The markets for Black Knight's solutions are characterized by constant technological changes, frequent introductions of new products and services and evolving industry standards. Black Knight's future success will be significantly affected by Black Knight's ability to successfully enhance Black Knight's current solutions, and develop and introduce new solutions and services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of Black Knight's clients and their customers. These initiatives carry the risks associated with 20 Table of Contents any new product or service development effort, including cost overruns, delays in delivery and performance issues. There can be no assurance that Black Knight will be successful in developing, marketing and selling new solutions and services that meet these changing demands, that Black Knight will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction, and marketing of these solutions and services, or that Black Knight's new solutions and services and their enhancements will adequately meet the demands of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. If Black Knight's efforts are unsuccessful, it could have a material adverse effect on Black Knight's business, financial condition and results of operations. Black Knight operates in a competitive business environment and, if Black Knight is unable to compete effectively, it could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. The markets for Black Knight's solutions are intensely competitive. Black Knight's competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the services they offer. Some of Black Knight's competitors have substantial resources. In addition, Black Knight expects that the markets in which Black Knight competes will continue to attract new competitors and new technologies. There can be no assurance that Black Knight will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures Black Knight faces in the markets in which Black Knight operates will not have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, because many of Black Knight's larger potential clients have historically developed their key processing applications in-house and therefore view their system requirements from a make-versus-buy perspective, Black Knight often competes against Black Knight's potential clients in-house capacities. There can be no assurance that Black Knight's strategies for overcoming potential clients reluctance to change will be successful, and if Black Knight is unsuccessful, it could have a material adverse effect on Black Knight's business, financial condition and results of operations. Black Knight relies on proprietary technology and information rights, and if Black Knight is unable to protect its rights, it could have a material adverse effect on Black Knight's business, financial condition and results of operations. Black Knight's success depends, in part, upon its intellectual property rights. Black Knight relies primarily on a combination of patents, copyrights, trade secrets, and trademark laws and nondisclosure and other contractual restrictions on copying, distribution and creation of derivative products to protect Black Knight's proprietary technology and information. This protection is limited, and Black Knight's intellectual property could be used by others without their consent. In addition, patents may not be issued with respect to Black Knight's pending or future patent applications, and Black Knight's patents may not be upheld as valid or may not prevent the development of competitive products. Any infringement, disclosure, loss, invalidity of, or failure to protect Black Knight's intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, litigation may be necessary to enforce or protect its intellectual property rights, to protect its trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation could be time-consuming, result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Because Black Knight's revenue from clients in the mortgage lending industry is affected by the strength of the economy and the housing market generally, including the volume of real estate transactions, a change in any of these conditions could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Black Knight's revenue is primarily generated from technology, data and analytics Black Knight provides to the mortgage lending industry and, as a result, a weak economy or housing market may have a material adverse effect on Black Knight's business, financial condition and results of operations. The volume of mortgage origination and residential real estate transactions is highly variable and reductions in these transaction volumes could have a direct impact on the revenues Black Knight generates. The revenues Black Knight generates from its servicing technology depend upon the total number of mortgage loans processed on its MSP platform, which tends to be comparatively consistent regardless of economic conditions. However, in the event that a difficult economy or other factors lead to a decline in levels of home ownership and a reduction in the number of mortgage loans outstanding and Black Knight is not able to counter the impact of those events with increased market share or higher fees, Black Knight's mortgage processing revenues could be adversely affected. Moreover, negative economic conditions, including increased unemployment or interest rates or a downturn in other general economic factors, among other things, could adversely affect the performance and financial condition of some of Black Knight's clients in many of its businesses, which may have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations if these clients exit certain businesses. A weaker economy and housing market tend to increase the volume of consumer mortgage defaults, which can increase revenues from Black Knight's applications focused on supporting default management functions. However, government regulation of the mortgage industry in general, and the default and foreclosure process in particular, has greatly slowed the processing of defaulted mortgages in recent years and has changed the way many of its clients address mortgage loans in default. A downturn in the origination market and a concurrent slowdown or change in the way mortgage loans in default are addressed could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents FNFV Our operations could be adversely affected by the results of our acquired restaurant companies due to the risks inherent in that segment. Our acquired restaurant companies face certain risks that could negatively impact their results of operations. These risks include such things as the risks of unfavorable economic conditions, changing consumer preferences, unfavorable publicity, increasing food and labor costs, effectiveness of marketing campaigns, and the ability to compete successfully with other restaurants. In addition, risks related to supply chain, food quality, and protecting guests' personal information are inherent to the restaurant business. These companies are also subject to compliance with extensive government laws and regulations related to employment practices and policies and the manufacture, preparation, and sale of food and alcohol. If our restaurant companies are not able to respond effectively to one or more of these risks, it could have a material adverse impact on the results of operations of those businesses. Risks Relating to the Ownership of Our FNFV Group Common Stock due to our Tracking Stock Capitalization Holders of FNF Group common stock and FNFV Group common stock are common shareholders of FNF and are, therefore, subject to risks associated with an investment in FNF as a whole, even if a holder does not own shares of common stock of both of our groups. Even though we have attributed, for financial reporting purposes, all of our consolidated assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses to either the FNF Group or the FNFV Group in order to prepare separate financial results for each of these groups included herein, we retain legal title to all of our assets and our capitalization does not limit our legal responsibility, or that of our subsidiaries, for the liabilities included in any disclosed financial results. Holders of FNF Group common stock and FNFV Group common stock do not have any legal rights related to specific assets attributed to the FNF Group or the FNFV Group and, in any liquidation, holders of FNF Group common stock and holders of FNFV Group common stock will be entitled to receive a pro rata share of our available net assets based on their respective numbers of liquidation units as specified in our certificate of incorporation (our "Corporate Charter"). Our Board of Directors ability to reattribute businesses, assets and expenses between tracking stock groups may make it difficult to assess the future prospects of either tracking stock group based on its past performance. Our Board of Directors is vested with discretion to reattribute businesses, assets and liabilities that are attributed to one tracking stock group to the other tracking stock group, without the approval of any of our shareholders, in accordance with our management and allocation policies and our Corporate Charter. Any such reattribution made by our Board of Directors, as well as the existence of the right in and of itself to effect a reattribution, may impact the ability of investors to assess the future prospects of either tracking stock group, including its liquidity and capital resource needs, based on its past performance. Shareholders may also have difficulty evaluating the liquidity and capital resources of each group based on past performance, as our Board of Directors may use one group liquidity to fund the other group liquidity and capital expenditure requirements through the use of inter-group loans and inter-group interests. We could be required to use assets attributed to one group to pay liabilities attributed to the other group. The assets attributed to one group are potentially subject to the liabilities attributed to the other group, even if those liabilities arise from lawsuits, contracts or indebtedness that are attributed to such other group. While our current management and allocation policies provide that reattributions of assets between groups will result in the creation of an inter-group loan or an inter-group interest or an offsetting reattribution of cash or other assets, no provision of our Corporate Charter prevents us from satisfying liabilities of one group with assets of the other group, and our creditors will not in any way be limited by our tracking stock capitalization from proceeding against any assets they could have proceeded against if we did not have a tracking stock capitalization. The market price of FNF Group common stock and FNFV Group common stock may not reflect the performance of the FNF Group and the FNFV Group, respectively, as we intend. We cannot assure you that the market price of the common stock of a group will, in fact, reflect the performance of the group of businesses, assets and liabilities attributed to that group. Holders of FNF Group common stock and FNFV Group common stock are common shareholders of FNF as a whole and, as such, will be subject to all risks associated with an investment in FNF and all of our businesses, assets and liabilities. As a result, the market price of each class of stock of a group may simply reflect the performance of FNF as a whole or may more independently reflect the performance of some or all of the group of assets attributed to such group. In addition, investors may discount the value of the stock of a group because it is part of a common enterprise rather than a stand-alone entity. 22 Table of Contents The market price of FNF Group common stock and FNFV Group common stock may be volatile, could fluctuate substantially and could be affected by factors that do not affect traditional common stock. To the extent the market prices of FNF Group common stock and FNFV Group common stock track the performance of more focused groups of businesses, assets and liabilities than the historic FNF Class A common stock did, the market prices of these new tracking stocks may be more volatile than the market price of FNF Class A common stock was historically. The market prices of FNF Group common stock and FNFV Group common stock may be materially affected by, among other things: actual or anticipated fluctuations in a group operating results or in the operating results of particular companies attributable to such group; potential acquisition activity by FNF or the companies in which we invest; issuances of debt or equity securities to raise capital by FNF or the companies in which we invest and the manner in which that debt or the proceeds of an equity issuance are attributed to each of the groups; changes in financial estimates by securities analysts regarding FNF Group common stock or FNFV Group common stock or the companies attributable to either of our tracking stock groups; the complex nature and the potential difficulties investors may have in understanding the terms of both of our tracking stocks, as well as concerns regarding the possible effect of certain of those terms on an investment in our stock; and general market conditions. The market value of FNF Group common stock and FNFV Group common stock could be adversely affected by events involving the assets and businesses attributed to either of the groups. Because we are the issuer of FNF Group common stock and FNFV Group common stock, an adverse market reaction to events relating to the assets and businesses attributed to either of our groups, such as earnings announcements or announcements of new products or services, acquisitions or dispositions that the market does not view favorably, may cause an adverse reaction to the common stock of the other group. This could occur even if the triggering event is not material to us as a whole. A certain triggering event may also have a greater impact on one group than the same triggering event would have on the other group due to the asset composition of the affected group. In addition, the incurrence of significant indebtedness by us or any of our subsidiaries on behalf of one group, including indebtedness incurred or assumed in connection with acquisitions of or investments in businesses, could affect our credit rating and that of our subsidiaries and, therefore, could increase the borrowing costs of businesses attributable to our other group or the borrowing costs of FNF as a whole. We may not pay dividends equally or at all on FNF Group common stock or FNFV Group common stock. FNF has historically paid quarterly dividends to its shareholders. We have the right to pay dividends on the shares of common stock of each group in equal or unequal amounts, and we may pay dividends on the shares of common stock of one group and not pay dividends on shares of common stock of the other group. In addition, any dividends or distributions on, or repurchases of, shares relating to either group will reduce our assets legally available to be paid as dividends on the shares relating to the other group. Our tracking stock capital structure could create conflicts of interest, and our Board of Directors may make decisions that could adversely affect only some holders of our common stock. Our tracking stock capital structure could give rise to occasions when the interests of holders of stock of one group might diverge or appear to diverge from the interests of holders of stock of the other group. In addition, given the nature of their businesses, there may be inherent conflicts of interests between the FNF Group and the FNFV Group. Our tracking stock groups are not separate entities and thus holders of FNF Group common stock and FNFV Group common stock do not have the right to elect separate Boards of Directors. As a result, our FNF officers and directors owe fiduciary duties to FNF as a whole and all of our shareholders as opposed to only holders of a particular group. Decisions deemed to be in the best interest of our Company and all of our shareholders may not be in the best interest of a particular group when considered independently. Examples include: decisions as to the terms of any business relationships that may be created between the FNF Group and the FNFV Group or the terms of any reattributions of assets between the groups; decisions as to the allocation of consideration among the holders of FNF Group common stock and FNFV Group common stock to be received in connection with a merger involving FNF; decisions as to the allocation of corporate opportunities between the groups, especially where the opportunities might meet the strategic business objectives of both groups; decisions as to operational and financial matters that could be considered detrimental to one group but beneficial to the other; decisions as to the conversion of shares of common stock of one group into shares of common stock of the other, which the Board of Directors may make in its sole discretion, so long as the shares are converted (other than in connection with the disposition of all or substantially all of a group assets) at a ratio that provides the shareholders of the converted stock with a premium based on the following requirements: 23 Table of Contents (i) a 10% premium to such stock market price for the first year following the recapitalization, (ii) an 8% premium to such stock market price for the second year following the recapitalization, (iii) a 6% premium to such stock market price for the third year following the recapitalization, (iv) a 4% premium to such stock market price for fourth year following the recapitalization, (v) a 2% premium to such stock market price for the fifth year following the recapitalization, and (vi) no premium to such stock market price thereafter, with such premium to be based on, in each case, the market price of such stock over the 10 day trading period preceding the date on the which the Board of Directors determines to effect any such conversion; no conversion premium is available for a conversion in connection with the disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of either group; decisions regarding the creation of, and, if created, the subsequent increase or decrease of any intergroup interest that one group may own in the other group; decisions as to the internal or external financing attributable to businesses or assets attributed to either of our groups; decisions as to the dispositions of assets of either of our groups; and decisions as to the payment of dividends on the stock relating to either of our groups. Our directors or officers ownership of FNF Group common stock and FNFV Group common stock may create or appear to create conflicts of interest. If directors or officers own disproportionate interests (in percentage or value terms) in FNF Group common stock or FNFV Group common stock, that disparity could create or appear to create conflicts of interest when they are faced with decisions that could have different implications for the holders of FNF Group common stock or FNFV Group common stock. We have not adopted any specific procedures for consideration of matters involving a divergence of interests among holders of shares of stock relating to our two groups. Rather than develop additional specific procedures in advance, our Board of Directors intends to exercise its judgment from time to time, depending on the circumstances, as to how best to: obtain information regarding the divergence (or potential divergence) of interests; determine under what circumstances to seek the assistance of outside advisers; determine whether a committee of our Board of Directors should be appointed to address a specific matter and the appropriate members of that committee; and assess what is in our best interest and the best interest of all of our shareholders. Our Board of Directors believes the advantage of retaining flexibility in determining how to fulfill its responsibilities in any such circumstances as they may arise outweighs any perceived advantages of adopting additional specific procedures in advance. Our Board of Directors may change the management and allocation policies following their implementation to the detriment of either group without shareholder approval. Our Board of Directors intends to adopt certain management and allocation policies as guidelines in making decisions regarding the relationships between the FNF Group and the FNFV Group with respect to matters such as tax liabilities and benefits, inter-group loans, inter-group interests, attribution of assets, financing alternatives, corporate opportunities and similar items. These policies also set forth the initial focuses and strategies of these groups and the initial attribution of our businesses, assets and liabilities between them. Our Board of Directors may at any time change or make exceptions to these policies. Because these policies relate to matters concerning the day-to-day management of FNF as opposed to significant corporate actions, such as a merger involving FNF or a sale of substantially all of our assets, no shareholder approval is required with respect to policy adoption or amendment. A decision to change, or make exceptions to, these policies or adopt additional policies could disadvantage one group while advantaging the other. Holders of shares of stock relating to a particular group may not have any remedies if any action by our Directors or Officers has an adverse effect on only that stock. Principles of Delaware law and the provisions of our Corporate Charter may protect decisions of our Board of Directors that have a disparate impact upon holders of shares of stock relating to a particular group. Under Delaware law, the Board of Directors has a duty to act with due care and in the best interests of all shareholders, regardless of the stock held. Principles of Delaware law established in cases involving differing treatment of multiple classes or series of stock provide that a Board of Directors owes an equal duty to all shareholders and does not have separate or additional duties to any subset of shareholders. Judicial opinions in Delaware involving tracking stocks have established that decisions by directors or officers involving differing treatment of holders of tracking stocks may be judged under the business judgment rule. In some circumstances, our directors or officers may be required to make a decision that is viewed as adverse to the holders of shares relating to a particular group. Under the principles of Delaware law and the business judgment rule referred to above, you may not be able to successfully challenge decisions that you believe have a disparate impact upon the shareholders of one of our groups if a majority of our Board of Directors is disinterested 24 Table of Contents and independent with respect to the action taken, is adequately informed with respect to the action taken and acts in good faith and in the honest belief that the Board of Directors is acting in the best interest of FNF and our shareholders as a whole. Shareholders will not vote on how to attribute consideration received in connection with a merger involving FNF among holders of FNF Group common stock and FNFV Group common stock. Our Corporate Charter does not contain any provisions governing how consideration received in connection with a merger or consolidation involving FNF is to be attributed to the holders of FNF Group common stock and holders of FNFV Group common stock, and none of the holders of FNF Group common stock or FNFV Group common stock will have a separate class vote in the event of such a merger or consolidation. Consistent with applicable principles of Delaware law, our Board of Directors will seek to divide the type and amount of consideration received in a merger or consolidation involving FNF among holders of FNF Group common stock and FNFV Group common stock in a fair manner. As the different ways our Board of Directors may divide the consideration between holders of stock relating to the different groups might have materially different results, the consideration to be received by holders of FNF Group common stock and FNFV Group common stock in any such merger or consolidation may be materially less valuable than the consideration they would have received if they had a separate class vote on such merger or consolidation. We may dispose of assets of the FNF Group or the FNFV Group without your approval. Delaware law requires shareholder approval only for a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of FNF taken as a whole, and our Corporate Charter does not require a separate class vote in the case of a sale of a significant amount of assets of any of our groups. As long as the assets attributed to the FNF Group or the FNFV Group proposed to be disposed of represent less than substantially all of our assets, we may approve sales and other dispositions of any amount of the assets of such group without any shareholder approval. If we dispose of all or substantially all of the assets attributed to any group (which means, for this purpose, assets representing 80% of the fair market value of the total assets of the disposing group, as determined by our Board of Directors), we would be required, if the disposition is not an exempt disposition under the terms of our Corporate Charter, to choose one or more of the following three alternatives: declare and pay a dividend on the disposing group common stock; redeem shares of the disposing group common stock in exchange for cash, securities or other property; and/or convert all or a portion of the disposing group outstanding common stock into common stock of the other group. In this type of a transaction, holders of the disposing group common stock may receive less value than the value that a third-party buyer might pay for all or substantially all of the assets of the disposing group. Our Board of Directors will decide, in its sole discretion, how to proceed and is not required to select the option that would result in the highest value to holders of any group of our common stock. Holders of FNF Group common stock or FNFV Group common stock may receive less consideration upon a sale of the assets attributed to that group than if that group were a separate company. If the FNF Group or the FNFV Group were a separate, independent company and its shares were acquired by another person, certain costs of that sale, including corporate level taxes, might not be payable in connection with that acquisition. As a result, shareholders of a separate, independent company with the same assets might receive a greater amount of proceeds than the holders of FNF Group common stock or FNFV Group common stock would receive upon a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the group to which their shares relate. In addition, we cannot assure you that in the event of such a sale the per share consideration to be paid to holders of FNF Group common stock or FNFV Group common stock, as the case may be, will be equal to or more than the per share value of that share of stock prior to or after the announcement of a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the applicable group. Further, there is no requirement that the consideration paid be tax-free to the holders of the shares of common stock of that group. Accordingly, if we sell all or substantially all of the assets attributed to the FNF Group or the FNFV Group, our shareholders could suffer a loss in the value of their investment in FNF. In the event of a liquidation of FNF, holders of FNF Group common stock and FNFV Group common stock will not have a priority with respect to the assets attributed to the related tracking stock group remaining for distribution to shareholders. Under the Corporate Charter, upon FNF liquidation, dissolution or winding up, holders of the FNF Group common stock and the FNFV Group common stock will be entitled to receive, in respect of their shares of such stock, their proportionate interest in all of FNF assets, if any, remaining for distribution to holders of common stock in proportion to their respective number of liquidation units per share. Relative liquidation units will be based on the volume weighted average prices of the FNF Group common stock and the FNFV Group common stock over the 10 trading day period commencing shortly after the initial filing of the Corporate Charter. Hence, the assets to be distributed to a holder of either tracking stock upon a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of FNF will have nothing to do with the value of the assets attributed to the related tracking stock group or to changes in the relative value of the FNF Group common stock and the FNFV Group common stock over time. 25 Table of Contents Our Board of Directors may in its sole discretion elect to convert the common stock relating to one group into common stock relating to the other group, thereby changing the nature of your investment and possibly diluting your economic interest in FNF, which could result in a loss in value to you. Our Corporate Charter permits our Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, to convert all of the outstanding shares of common stock relating to either of our groups into shares of common stock of the other group so long as the shares are converted at a ratio that provides the shareholders of the converted stock with the applicable Conversion Premium (if any) to which they are entitled. A conversion would preclude the holders of stock in each group involved in such conversion from retaining their investment in a security that is intended to reflect separately the performance of the relevant group. We cannot predict the impact on the market value of our stock of (1) our Board of Directors ability to effect any such conversion or (2) the exercise of this conversion right by FNF. In addition, our Board of Directors may effect such a conversion at a time when the market value of our stock could cause the shareholders of one group to be disadvantaged. Holders of FNF Group common stock and FNFV Group common stock vote together and have limited separate voting rights. Holders of FNF Group common stock and FNFV Group common stock vote together as a single class, except in certain limited circumstances prescribed by our Corporate Charter and under Delaware law. Each share of common stock of each group has one vote per share. When holders of FNF Group common stock and FNFV Group common stock vote together as a single class, holders having a majority of the votes are in a position to control the outcome of the vote even if the matter involves a conflict of interest among our shareholders or has a greater impact on one group than the other. Our capital structure, as well as the fact that the FNF Group and the FNFV Group are not independent companies may inhibit or prevent acquisition bids for the FNF Group or the FNFV Group and may make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so may be beneficial to our shareholders. If the FNF Group and the FNFV Group were separate independent companies, any person interested in acquiring the FNF Group or the FNFV Group without negotiating with management could seek control of that group by obtaining control of its outstanding voting stock, by means of a tender offer, or by means of a proxy contest. Although we intend FNF Group common stock and FNFV Group common stock to reflect the separate economic performance of the FNF Group and the FNFV Group, respectively, those groups are not separate entities and a person interested in acquiring only one group without negotiation with our management could obtain control of that group only by obtaining control of a majority in voting power of all of the outstanding shares of common stock of FNF. The existence of shares of common stock relating to different groups could present complexities and in certain circumstances pose obstacles, financial and otherwise, to an acquiring person that are not present in companies that do not have capital structures similar to ours. Certain provisions of our Corporate Charter and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of FNF that a shareholder may consider favorable. These provisions include: classifying our Board of Directors with staggered three-year terms, which may lengthen the time required to gain control of our Board of Directors; limiting who may call special meetings of shareholders; establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; and the existence of authorized and unissued stock, including blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by our Board of Directors to persons friendly to our then current management, thereby protecting the continuity of our management, or which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of persons seeking to obtain control of FNF. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties Our corporate headquarters are on our campus in Jacksonville, Florida in owned facilities. Title The majority of our branch offices are leased from third parties. See Note M to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this report for further information on our outstanding leases. Our subsidiaries conduct their business operations primarily in leased office space in 44 states, Washington, DC, Puerto Rico, Canada and India. Black Knight Black Knight is headquartered in Jacksonville, Florida in an owned facility. It also owns one facility in Sharon, Pennsylvania, and leases office space in 13 states and India. Restaurant Group The Restaurant Group's headquarters are located in Nashville, Tennessee with other office locations in Woburn, Massachusetts and Denver, Colorado. The majority of the restaurants are leased from third parties, and are located in 42 states. 26 Table of Contents Item 3. Legal Proceedings For a description of our legal proceedings see discussion of Legal and Regulatory Contingencies in Note M to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Report, which is incorporated by reference into this Part I, Item 3. PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities On June 30, 2014, we completed the approved recapitalization of FNF common stock into two tracking stocks, FNF Group common stock and FNFV Group common stock. Each share of the previously outstanding FNF Class A common stock ("Old FNF common stock") was converted into one share of FNF Group common stock, which continues to trade under the trading symbol "FNF," and 0.3333 of a share of FNFV Group common stock, which trades under the trading symbol "FNFV." Both FNF and FNFV began regular trading on July 1, 2014. Both classes of our common stock trade on the New York Stock Exchange. The following tables provide the high and low closing sales prices of each class of our common stock and cash dividends declared per share of common stock for each quarter during 2015 and 2014. FNF Group Stock Price High Stock Price Low Cash Dividends Declared Year ended December 31, 2015 First quarter $ 38.41 $ 34.29 $ 0.19 Second quarter 38.50 35.91 0.19 Third quarter 39.99 34.75 0.21 Fourth quarter 36.99 32.49 0.21 Year ended December 31, 2014 Third quarter $ 28.59 $ 26.59 $ 0.18 Fourth quarter 36.02 26.21 0.19 FNFV Group Stock Price High Stock Price Low Cash Dividends Declared Year ended December 31, 2015 First quarter $ 15.04 $ 11.61 $ Second quarter 15.80 14.17 Third quarter 15.62 11.66 Fourth quarter 12.06 9.88 Year ended December 31, 2014 Third quarter $ 16.94 $ 13.76 $ Fourth quarter 15.74 13.00 Old FNF Stock Price High Stock Price Low Cash Dividends Declared Year ended December 31, 2014 (1) First quarter $ 33.22 $ 29.78 $ 0.18 Second quarter 34.45 31.11 0.18 (1) Prices listed for Old FNF are unadjusted prices which do not give effect to the recapitalization and tracking stock formation on June 30, 2014. 27 Table of Contents Information concerning securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans will be included in Item 12 of Part III of this report. 28 Table of Contents PERFORMANCE GRAPH Set forth below is a graph comparing cumulative total shareholder return on our FNF Group common stock against the cumulative total return on the S & P 500 Index and against the cumulative total return of a peer group index consisting of certain companies in the primary industry in which we compete (SIC code 6361 Title Insurance) for the period ending December 31, 2015 . This peer group consists of the following companies: First American Financial Corporation and Stewart Information Services Corp. The peer group comparison has been weighted based on their stock market capitalization. The graph assumes an initial investment of $100.00 on December 31, 2010, with dividends reinvested over the periods indicated. 12/31/2010 12/31/2011 12/31/2012 12/31/2013 12/31/2014 12/31/2015 Fidelity National Financial, Inc. 100.00 120.19 182.94 258.66 342.03 352.02 S&P 500 100.00 102.11 118.45 156.82 178.29 180.75 Peer Group 100.00 87.88 174.24 209.57 255.78 275.46 29 Table of Contents Set forth below is a graph comparing cumulative total shareholder return on our FNFV Group common stock against the cumulative total return on the S & P 500 Index and against the cumulative total return of a peer group index consisting of certain companies against which we compete for the period ending December 31, 2015 . The peer group comparison has been weighted based on their stock market capitalization . The graph assumes an initial investment of $100.00 on July 1, 2014, with dividends reinvested over the periods indicated. 7/1/2014 12/31/2014 12/31/2015 Fidelity National Financial Ventures 100.00 81.60 89.06 S&P 500 100.00 106.12 107.58 Peer Group (1) 100.00 109.66 104.83 (1) This peer group consists of the following companies: American Capital, Ltd., Apollo Global Management, LLC, BlackRock, Inc., The Blackstone Group L.P., The Carlyle Group, Compass Diversified Holdings, Fortress Investment Group, LLC, KKR & Co. L.P., Leucadia National Corporation, Liberty Interactive Corporation, and Liberty Media Corporation. On January 31, 2016, the last reported sale price of our FNF Group common stock and FNFV Group common stock on the New York Stock Exchange was $32.38 and $9.38 per share, respectively. We had approximately 7,200 shareholders of record of FNF Group common stock and 5,500 shareholders of record of FNFV Group common stock. On February 3, 2016 , our Board of Directors formally declared a $0.21 per FNF Group share cash dividend that is payable on March 31, 2016 to FNF Group shareholders of record as of March 17, 2016 . No dividends were declared on our FNFV Group common stock. Our current FNF Group dividend policy anticipates the payment of quarterly dividends in the future. The declaration and payment of dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will be dependent upon our future earnings, financial 30 Table of Contents condition and capital requirements. There are no restrictions on our retained earnings regarding our ability to pay dividends to shareholders, although there are limits on the ability of certain subsidiaries to pay dividends to us, as described below. Our ability to declare dividends is subject to restrictions under our existing credit agreement. We do not believe the restrictions contained in our credit agreement will, in the foreseeable future, adversely affect our ability to pay cash dividends at the current dividend rate. Since we are a holding company, our ability to pay dividends will depend largely on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us, and the ability of our title insurance subsidiaries to do so is subject to, among other factors, their compliance with applicable insurance regulations. As of December 31, 2015 , $ 2,049 million of our net assets are restricted from dividend payments without prior approval from the Departments of Insurance in the states where our title insurance subsidiaries are domiciled. During 2016 , our directly owned title insurance subsidiaries can pay dividends or make distributions to us of approximately $ 334 million without prior approval. The limits placed on such subsidiaries abilities to pay dividends affect our ab ility to pay dividends. We have not paid any dividends on our FNFV Group common stock, and our current FNFV Group dividend policy does not presently anticipate the payment of dividends. Payment of dividends, if any, in the future will be determined by our Board of Directors in light of our earnings, financial condition and other relevant considerations. On September 16, 2015, J. Alexander's and FNF entered into a Separation and Distribution Agreement, pursuant to which FNF agreed to distribute one hundred percent ( 100% ) of its shares of J. Alexander's common stock, on a pro rata basis, to the holders of FNFV common stock. Holders of FNFV common stock received, as a distribution from FNF, approximately 0.17272 shares of J. Alexander common stock for every one share of FNFV common stock held at the close of business on September 22, 2015, the record date for the distribution (the Distribution ). The Distribution was made on September 28, 2015 . As a result of the Distribution, J. Alexander's is now an independent public company and its common stock is listed under the symbol JAX on the New York Stock Exchange. The Distribution was generally tax-free to FNFV shareholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes, except to the extent of any cash received in lieu of J. Alexander's fractional shares. On March 20, 2015, we completed our tender offer to purchase shares of FNFV stock. As a result of the offer, we accepted for purchase 12,333,333 shares of FNFV Group Common Stock for a purchase price of $15.00 per common share, for a total aggregate cost of $185 million , excluding fees and expenses related to the tender offer. On October 28, 2014, our Board of Directors approved a three-year stock purchase program, effective November 6, 2014, under which we can repurchase up to 10 million shares of our FNFV Group common stock through November 30, 2017. We may make repurchases from time to time in the open market, in block purchases or in privately negotiated transactions, depending on market conditions and other factors. In the year ended December 31, 2015 , we repurchased a total of 8,187,382 shares for $106 million , or an average of $12.95 per share under this program. Subsequent to year-end we repurchased a total of 1,143,900 shares for $11 million , or an average of $9.71 per share under this program through market close on February 19, 2016 . Since the original commencement of the plan adopted November 6, 2014, we have repurchased a total of 9,447,382 shares for $119 million , or an average of $12.57 per share, and there are 552,618 shares available to be repurchased under this program. On February 18, 2016, our Board of Directors approved a new FNFV Group three-year stock repurchase program, effective March 1, 2016, under which we may repurchase up to 15 million shares of FNFV Group common stock. Purchases may be made from time to time by us in the open market at prevailing market prices or in privately negotiated transactions through February 28, 2019. For more information, see Liquidity and Capital Resources in Item 7 of this Form 10-K. On June 30, 2014, we completed the recapitalization of Old FNF common stock into two tracking stocks, FNF Group common stock and FNFV Group common stock. We issued 277,462,875 shares of FNF Group common stock and 91,711,237 shares of FNFV Group common stock. See Note A for further discussion on the recapitalization of FNF common stock. On January 2, 2014 as part of the LPS Acquisition, we issued $839 million or 25,920,078 shares of Old FNF common stock as consideration for the LPS Acquisition to the former shareholders of LPS. On July 21, 2012, our Board of Directors approved a three-year stock repurchase program, effective August 1, 2012, under which we can repurchase up to 15 million shares of FNF Group common stock through July 31, 2015. On July 20, 2015, our Board of Directors approved a new three-year stock repurchase program under which we can purchase up to 25 million shares through July 30, 2018. We may make repurchases from time to time in the open market, in block purchases or in privately negotiated transactions, depending on market conditions and other factors. In the year ended December 31, 2015 , we repurchased a total 5,875,000 FNF Group shares under these programs for $214 million , or an average price of $36.41 per share. Subsequent to year-end we repurchased a total of 500,000 shares for $17 million , or an average of $33.19 per share under this program through market close on February 19, 2016 . Since the original commencement of the plan adopted July 21, 2012, we have repurchased a total of 3,380,000 FNF common shares for $ 98 million , or an average of $ 28.97 per share, and there are no shares available to be repurchased under this program. Since the original commencement of the plan adopted July 20, 2015, we have repurchased a total of 5,075,000 FNF common shares for $182 million , or an average of $35.92 per share, and there are 19,925,000 shares available to be repurchased under this program. For more information, see Liquidity and Capital Resources in Item 7 of this Form 10-K. 31 Table of Contents The following table summarizes repurchases of equity securities by FNF during the year ending December 31, 2015 : Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs (1) Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs (2) 6/1/2015 - 6/30/2015 1,100,000 $ 36.93 1,100,000 11,820,000 7/1/2015 - 7/31/2015 250,000 38.12 250,000 24,950,000 8/1/2015 - 8/31/2015 1,050,000 38.53 1,050,000 23,900,000 9/1/2015 - 9/30/2015 1,050,000 36.35 1,050,000 22,850,000 10/1/2015 - 10/31/2015 350,000 35.89 350,000 22,500,000 11/1/2015 - 11/30/2015 1,000,000 35.30 1,000,000 21,500,000 12/1/2015 - 12/31/2015 1,075,000 34.65 1,075,000 20,425,000 Total 5,875,000 $ 36.41 5,875,000 (1) On July 21, 2012, our Board of Directors approved a three-year stock purchase program, effective August 1, 2012, under which we can repurchase up to 15 million shares of our FNF Group common stock through July 31, 2015. On July 20, 2015, our Board of Directors approved a new three-year stock repurchase program. Under the new stock repurchase program, we can repurchase up to 25 million shares of our common stock through July 30, 2018. (2) As of the last day of the applicable month. The following table summarizes repurchases of equity securities by FNFV during the year ending December 31, 2015 : Period Total Number of Shares Purchased (3) Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs (1) Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs (2) 1/1/2015 - 1/31/2015 423,350 $ 12.34 423,350 9,460,550 3/1/2015 - 3/31/2015 12,333,333 15.00 9,460,550 4/1/2015 - 4/30/2015 50,000 14.62 50,000 9,410,550 5/1/2015 - 5/31/2015 850,000 15.07 850,000 8,560,550 6/1/2015 - 6/30/2015 1,000,000 15.23 1,000,000 7,560,550 7/1/2015 - 7/31/2015 204,000 15.08 204,000 7,356,550 8/1/2015 - 8/31/2015 1,393,000 14.49 1,393,000 5,963,550 9/1/2015 - 9/30/2015 679,532 13.73 679,532 5,284,018 10/1/2015 - 10/31/2015 530,000 11.66 530,000 4,754,018 11/1/2015 - 11/30/2015 1,462,500 11.09 1,462,500 3,291,518 12/1/2015 - 12/31/2015 1,595,000 10.68 1,595,000 1,696,518 Total 20,520,715 $ 14.18 8,187,382 (1) On October 28, 2014, our Board of Directors approved a three-year stock purchase program, effective November 6, 2014, under which we can repurchase up to 10 million shares of our FNFV Group common stock through November 30, 2017. (2) As of the last day of the applicable month. (3) On March 20, 2015 we completed our tender offer to purchase 12,333,333 shares of FNFV stock at a price of $15.00 per share. 32 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data The information set forth below should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes and Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior year amounts to conform with the 2015 presentation. On September 28, 2015 , we completed the distribution of J. Alexander's to FNFV shareholders. The results of J. Alexander's operations are included through the distribution date. On December 31, 2014, we completed the distribution of Remy International, Inc. to our FNFV shareholders. The operations of Remy are included in discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012. On January 2, 2014, we completed the purchase of LPS and consolidated the operations of LPS beginning on January 3, 2014. On April 9, 2012, we successfully closed a tender offer for the outstanding common stock of O'Charley's Inc. We have consolidated the results of O'Charley's as of April 9, 2012. On May 11, 2012, we merged O'Charley's with our investment in ABRH in exchange for an increase in our ownership position in ABRH from 45% to 55%. We have consolidated the operations of ABRH with the O'Charley's group of companies, beginning on May 11, 2012. Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 (Dollars in millions, except share data) Operating Data: Revenue $ 9,132 $ 8,024 $ 7,440 $ 6,668 $ 4,800 Expenses: Personnel costs 2,671 2,540 2,061 1,834 1,568 Agent commissions 1,731 1,471 1,789 1,600 1,411 Other operating expenses 1,881 1,643 1,273 1,269 1,064 Cost of restaurant revenues 1,195 1,220 1,204 773 Depreciation and amortization 410 403 133 103 73 Provision for title claim losses 246 228 291 279 222 Interest expense 131 127 73 64 57 8,265 7,632 6,824 5,922 4,395 Earnings before income taxes, equity in (loss) earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, and noncontrolling interest 867 392 616 746 405 Income tax expense 290 312 195 242 131 Earnings before equity in (loss) earnings of unconsolidated affiliates 577 80 421 504 274 Equity in (loss) earnings of unconsolidated affiliates (16 ) 432 (26 ) 10 10 Earnings from continuing operations, net of tax 561 512 395 514 284 Earnings from discontinued operations, net of tax 7 16 98 95 Net earnings 561 519 411 612 379 Less: net earnings (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests 34 (64 ) 17 5 10 Net earnings attributable to FNF common shareholders $ 527 $ 583 $ 394 $ 607 $ 369 33 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 (Dollars in millions, except share data) Per Share Data: Basic net earnings per share attributable to Old FNF common shareholders $ 0.33 $ 1.71 $ 2.75 $ 1.68 Basic net earnings per share attributable to FNF Group common shareholders $ 1.95 $ 0.77 Basic net (loss) earnings per share attributable to FNFV Group common shareholders $ (0.16 ) $ 3.04 Weighted average shares outstanding Old FNF, basic basis (1) 138 230 221 219 Weighted average shares outstanding FNF Group, basic basis (1) 277 138 Weighted average shares outstanding FNFV Group, basic basis (1) 79 46 Diluted net earnings per share attributable to Old FNF common shareholders $ 0.32 $ 1.68 $ 2.69 $ 1.65 Diluted net earnings per share attributable to FNF Group common shareholders $ 1.89 $ 0.75 Diluted net (loss) earnings per share attributable to FNFV Group common shareholders $ (0.16 ) $ 3.01 Weighted average shares outstanding Old FNF, diluted basis (1) 142 235 226 223 Weighted average shares outstanding FNF Group, diluted basis (1) 286 142 Weighted average shares outstanding FNFV Group, diluted basis (1) 82 47 Dividends declared per share of Old FNF common stock $ 0.36 $ 0.66 $ 0.58 $ 0.48 Dividends declared per share of FNF Group common stock $ 0.80 $ 0.37 Balance Sheet Data: Investments (2) $ 4,853 $ 4,669 $ 3,791 $ 4,053 $ 4,052 Cash and cash equivalents (3) 780 700 1,969 1,132 665 Total assets 13,931 13,845 10,508 9,886 7,850 Notes payable 2,793 2,803 1,303 1,327 904 Reserve for title claim losses 1,583 1,621 1,636 1,748 1,913 Redeemable NCI 344 715 Equity 6,588 6,073 5,535 4,749 3,655 Book value per share Old FNF $ 22.14 $ 20.78 $ 16.57 Book value per share FNF Group (4) $ 21.21 $ 18.87 Book value per share FNFV Group (4) $ 15.05 $ 16.31 Other Data: Orders opened by direct title operations (in 000's) 2,092 1,914 2,181 2,702 2,140 Orders closed by direct title operations (in 000's) 1,472 1,319 1,708 1,867 1,514 Provision for title insurance claim losses as a percent of title insurance premiums 5.7 % 6.2 % 7.0 % 7.0 % 6.8 % Title related revenue (5): Percentage direct operations 70.1 % 70.0 % 60.1 % 61.9 % 60.6 % Percentage agency operations 29.9 % 30.0 % 39.9 % 38.1 % 39.4 % ______________________________________ (1) Weighted average shares outstanding as of December 31, 2014 includes 25,920,078 FNF shares that were issued as part of the acquisition of LPS on January 2, 2014 and 91,711,237 FNFV shares that were issued as part of the recapitalization completed on June 30, 2014. Weighted average shares outstanding as of December 31, 2013 includes 19,837,500 shares that were issued as part of an equity offering by FNF on October 31, 2013. 34 Table of Contents (2) Investments as of December 31, 2015 , 2014 , 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 , include securities pledged to secured trust deposits of $608 million , $499 million , $261 million , $278 million , and $280 million , respectively. (3) Cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2015 , 2014 , 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 include cash pledged to secured trust deposits of $108 million , $136 million , $339 million , $266 million , and $162 million , respectively. (4) Book value per share is calculated as equity at December 31 of each year presented divided by actual shares outstanding at December 31 of each year presented. (5) Includes title insurance premiums and escrow, title-related and other fees. Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) Selected quarterly financial data is as follows: Quarter Ended March 31, June 30, September 30, December 31, (Dollars in millions, except per share data) 2015 Revenue $ 2,061 $ 2,395 $ 2,392 $ 2,284 Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes, equity in (loss) earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, and noncontrolling interest 151 254 238 224 Net earnings attributable to FNF Group common shareholders 86 160 150 144 Net earnings (loss) attributable to FNFV Group common shareholders 10 (18 ) (5 ) Basic earnings per share attributable to FNF Group common shareholders 0.31 0.57 0.54 0.52 Basic earnings (loss) per share attributable to FNFV Group common shareholders 0.12 (0.24 ) (0.07 ) Diluted earnings per share attributable to FNF Group common shareholders 0.30 0.56 0.53 0.51 Diluted earnings (loss) per share attributable to FNFV Group common shareholders 0.12 (0.24 ) (0.07 ) Dividends paid per share FNF Group common stock 0.19 0.19 0.21 0.21 2014 Revenue $ 1,786 $ 2,059 $ 2,093 $ 2,086 (Loss) earnings from continuing operations before income taxes, equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, and noncontrolling interest (89 ) 156 172 153 Net (loss) earnings attributable to Old FNF common shareholders (22 ) 111 Net earnings attributable to FNF Group common shareholders 114 100 Net (loss) earnings attributable to FNFV Group common shareholders (12 ) 292 Basic (loss) earnings per share attributable to Old FNF common shareholders (0.08 ) 0.41 Basic earnings per share attributable to FNF Group common shareholders 0.40 0.37 Basic (loss) earnings per share attributable to FNFV Group common shareholders (0.14 ) 3.18 Diluted (loss) earnings per share attributable to Old FNF common shareholders (0.08 ) 0.40 Diluted earnings per share attributable to FNF Group common shareholders 0.40 0.35 Diluted (loss) earnings per share attributable to FNFV Group common shareholders (0.14 ) 3.15 Dividends paid per share of Old FNF Common Stock 0.18 0.18 Dividends paid per share FNF Group common stock 0.18 0.19 35 Table of Contents Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes thereto and Selected Financial Data included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Overview We have organized our business into two groups, FNF Core Operations and FNF Ventures ("FNFV"). Through our Core Operations, FNF is a leading provider of (i) title insurance, escrow and other title related services, including collection and trust activities, trustee sales guarantees, recordings and reconveyances and home warranty insurance and (ii) technology and transaction services to the real estate and mortgage industries. FNF is the nation largest title insurance company operating through its title insurance underwriters Fidelity National Title Insurance Company, Chicago Title Insurance Company, Commonwealth Land Title Insurance Company, Alamo Title Insurance and National Title Insurance of New York Inc. - that collectively issue more title insurance policies than any other title company in the United States. Through our subsidiary ServiceLink Holdings, LLC ("ServiceLink"), we provide mortgage transaction services including title-related services and facilitation of production and management of mortgage loans. FNF also provides industry-leading mortgage technology solutions, including MSP , the leading residential mortgage servicing technology platform in the U.S., through its majority-owned subsidiary, Black Knight Financial Services, Inc. ("Black Knight"). Through our FNFV group, we own majority and minority equity investment stakes in a number of entities, including American Blue Ribbon Holdings, LLC ("ABRH"), Ceridian HCM, Inc. and Fleetcor Technologies, Inc. (collectively "Ceridian") and Digital Insurance, Inc. ("Digital Insurance"). As of December 31, 2015 , we had the following reporting segments: FNF Core Operations Title. This segment consists of the operations of our title insurance underwriters and related businesses. This segment provides core title insurance and escrow and other title-related services including collection and trust activities, trustee sales guarantees, recordings and reconveyances, and home warranty insurance. This segment also includes the transaction services business acquired from Lender Processing Services, Inc. ("LPS"), now combined with our ServiceLink business. Transaction services include other title related services used in the production and management of mortgage loans, including mortgage loans that experience default. Black Knight. This segment consists of the operations of Black Knight, which, through leading software systems and information solutions, provides mission critical technology and data and analytics services that facilitate and automate many of the business processes across the life cycle of a mortgage. FNF Core Corporate and Other. This segment consists of the operations of the parent holding company, certain other unallocated corporate overhead expenses, and other smaller real estate and insurance-related operations. FNFV Restaurant Group. This segment consists of the operations of ABRH, in which we have a 55% ownership interest. ABRH and its affiliates are the owners and operators of the O'Charley's, Ninety Nine Restaurants, Max & Erma's, Village Inn, Bakers Square, and Legendary Baking concepts. This segment also includes the results of J. Alexander's, Inc. ("J. Alexander's") through September 28, 2015, the date it was distributed to FNFV shareholders. See the Recent Developments section below for further discussion of the distribution of J. Alexander's. On January 25, 2016, substantially all of the assets of the Max & Erma's restaurant concept were sold pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement. FNFV Corporate and Other. This segment primarily consists of our share in the operations of certain equity investments, including Ceridian, as well as consolidated investments, including Digital Insurance in which we own 96% , and other smaller operations which are not title related. Recent Developments On February 18, 2016, our Board of Directors approved a new FNFV Group three-year stock repurchase program, effective March 1, 2016, under which we may repurchase up to 15 million shares of FNFV Group common stock. Purchases may be made from time to time by us in the open market at prevailing market prices or in privately negotiated transactions through February 28, 2019. On February 11, 2016, we announced that we are considering alternatives to the spin-off of ABRH to FNFV shareholders previously announced on July 30, 2015. 36 Table of Contents On January 20, 2016, we entered into two interest rate swap agreements to hedge forecasted monthly interest rate payments on $400.0 million of our floating rate debt ($200.0 million notional value each) (the Swap Agreements ). The Swap Agreements have been designated as cash flow hedging instruments. Under the terms of the Swap Agreements, we receive payments based on the 1-month LIBOR rate and pay a weighted average fixed rate of 1.01%. The effective term for the Swap Agreements is February 1, 2016 through January 31, 2019. Beginning in October 2015 through December 31, 2015, we purchased approximately 2.2 million shares of Del Frisco Restaurant Group ("Del Frisco's", NASDAQ: DFRG) common stock for a total investment of $32 million . Subsequent to year-end through February 19, 2016, we purchased approximately 0.8 million shares of Del Frisco's common stock for $12 million . We currently own approximately 13% of the outstanding common stock of Del Frisco's. On September 16, 2015, J. Alexander's and FNF entered into a Separation and Distribution Agreement, pursuant to which FNF agreed to distribute one hundred percent ( 100% ) of its shares of J. Alexander's common stock, on a pro rata basis, to the holders of FNFV common stock. Holders of FNFV common stock received, as a distribution from FNF, approximately 0.17272 shares of J. Alexander common stock for every one share of FNFV common stock held at the close of business on September 22, 2015, the record date for the distribution (the Distribution ). The Distribution was made on September 28, 2015 . As a result of the Distribution, J. Alexander's is now an independent public company and its common stock is listed under the symbol JAX on the New York Stock Exchange. The Distribution was generally tax-free to FNFV shareholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes, except to the extent of any cash received in lieu of J. Alexander's fractional shares. On July 20, 2015, we completed the recapitalization of ServiceLink Holdings, LLC through a conversion (the "ServiceLink Conversion") of $505 million of the $566 million aggregate preference amount associated with its Class A1 participating preferred units into slightly more than 67.3 million Class A common units. As a result of the ServiceLink Conversion, our ownership percentage in ServiceLink Holdings, LLC increased from 65% to 79% . On July 20, 2015, our Board of Directors approved a new FNF Group three-year stock repurchase program, effective August 1, 2015, under which we may repurchase up to 25 million shares of FNF Group common stock. Purchases may be made from time to time by us in the open market at prevailing market prices or in privately negotiated transactions through July 31, 2018. On May 29, 2015, Black Knight completed a redemption (the "Redemption") of $205 million in aggregate principal of its senior notes ("Black Knight Senior Notes") at a price of 105.750% . Black Knight incurred a charge on the Redemption of $12 million and also reduced the bond premium by $7 million for the portion of the premium that relates to the redeemed Black Knight Senior Notes, resulting in a net charge on the Redemption of $5 million . Following the Redemption, $390 million in aggregate principal of Black Knight Senior Notes remained outstanding. On May 27, 2015, Black Knight InfoServ, LLC ( BKIS ), a subsidiary of Black Knight, entered into a credit and guaranty agreement (the BKIS Credit Agreement ) with an aggregate borrowing capacity of $1.6 billion , dated as of May 27, 2015, with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as administrative agent, the guarantors party thereto, the other agents party thereto and the lenders party thereto. FNF does not provide any guaranty or stock pledge under the BKIS Credit Agreement. On May 27, 2015, we entered into an amendment to our existing $800 million third amended and restated credit agreement (as previously amended, the Existing Revolving Credit Agreement ), dated as of June 25, 2013, with Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, the other agents party thereto and the financial institutions party thereto as lenders (the FNF Amended Revolving Credit Agreement ). Among other changes, the FNF Amended Revolving Credit Agreement amends the Existing Revolving Credit Agreement to permit FNF and its subsidiaries to incur the indebtedness and liens in connection with the BKIS Credit Agreement. On May 26, 2015, Black Knight closed its initial public offering ("IPO") of 20,700,000 shares of Class A common stock at a price to the public of $24.50 per share, which included 2,700,000 shares of Class A common stock issued upon the exercise in full of the underwriters' option to purchase additional shares. Black Knight received net proceeds of $475 million from the offering, after deduction of underwriter discount and expenses. In connection with the IPO, Black Knight amended and restated its certificate of incorporation to authorize the issuance of two classes of common stock, Class A common stock and Class B common stock, which will generally vote together as a single class on all matters submitted for a vote to stockholders. As a result, Black Knight issued shares of Class B common stock to us, and certain Thomas H. Lee Partners affiliates, as the holders of membership interests in Black Knight Financial Services, LLC ("BKFS, LLC") prior to the IPO. Class B common stock is not publicly traded and does not entitle the holders thereof to any of the economic rights, including rights to dividends and distributions upon liquidation that would be provided to holders of Class A common stock. Prior to the IPO, we owned 67% of the membership interests in BKFS, LLC. Following the IPO, we owned 55% of the outstanding shares of Black Knight in the form of Class B common stock, with a corresponding ownership interest in BKFS, LLC. On March 20, 2015, we completed our tender offer to purchase shares of FNFV stock. As a result of the offer, we accepted for purchase 12,333,333 shares of FNFV Group Common Stock for a purchase price of $15.00 per common share, for a total aggregate cost of $185 million , excluding fees and expenses related to the tender offer. 37 Table of Contents On February 18, 2015, we closed the sale of substantially all of the assets of Cascade Timberlands, LLC ("Cascade") which grows and sells timber and in which we owned a 70.2% interest, for $85 million less a replanting allowance of $1 million and an indemnity holdback of $1 million . The revenue from the sale was recorded in Escrow, title related and other fees and the cost of the land sold was in Other operating expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Operations in the twelve months ended December 31, 2015. The effect of the sale on FNFV's net earnings was income of approximately $12 million . There was no effect on net earnings attributable to FNFV Group common shareholders due to offsetting amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests. Acquisitions The results of operations and financial position of the entities acquired during any year are included in the Consolidated Financial Statements from and after the date of acquisition. On February 12, 2015, we closed the purchase of Buyers Protection Group Holdings, LLC ("BPG"), pursuant to a certain Membership Interest Purchase Agreement, for $46 million . We first consolidated the results of BPG as of March 31, 2015. BPG is a recognized leader in home warranty, home inspection services and commercial inspections. Discontinued Operations On December 31, 2014, we completed the distribution (the "Remy Spin-off") of all of the outstanding shares of common stock of our previously owned subsidiary Remy International, Inc. ("New Remy", NASDAQ: REMY), a manufacturer and distributer of auto parts, to FNFV shareholders. We have no continuing involvement in New Remy as of December 31, 2015. As a result of the Remy Spin-off, the results of New Remy are reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings as discontinued operations for the the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013. Total revenue included in discontinued operations was $1,173 million and $1,125 million for the years ended December 31, 2014, and 2013, respectively. Pre-tax earnings included in discontinued operations were $6 million and $22 million for the years ended December 31, 2014, and 2013, respectively. The results from a small software company, which we acquired with LPS and which was sold during the second quarter of 2014, are included in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Total revenues included in discontinued operations were $2 million for the year ending December 31, 2014. Pre-tax earnings included in discontinued operations are $1 million for the year ending December 31, 2014. The results from two closed J. Alexander's locations in the second quarter of 2013 are reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Total net revenue included in discontinued operations was $3 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. Pre-tax loss included in discontinued operations was $3 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. The results from a settlement services company closed in the second quarter of 2013 are reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Total revenues included in discontinued operations were $9 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. Pre-tax earnings included in discontinued operations were $2 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. Related Party Transactions Our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2013 reflect transactions with Fidelity National Information Services ("FIS"), which was considered a related party until December 31, 2013. See Note A of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Business Trends and Conditions Title Our Title segment revenue is closely related to the level of real estate activity which includes sales, mortgage financing and mortgage refinancing. The levels of real estate activity are primarily affected by the average price of real estate sales, the availability of funds to finance purchases, mortgage interest rates and the strength of the United States economy, including employment levels. Declines in the level of real estate activity or the average price of real estate sales will adversely affect our title insurance revenues. We have found that residential real estate activity is generally dependent on the following: mortgage interest rates; the mortgage funding supply; and the strength of the United States economy, including employment levels. From December 2008 through December 2015, the Federal Reserve held the federal funds rate at 0.0%-0.25%. In December 2015, the Federal Reserve raised the target federal funds rate to 0.25%-0.50%. Mortgage interest rates were at historically low levels through the beginning of 2013. During the last half of 2013, however, interest rates rose to their highest level since 2011. Through 2014, mortgage interest rates declined moderately. In the fourth quarter of 2014, interest rates dropped below 4.00% and have remained between 3.50% and 4.25% through the year ended December 31, 2015. 38 Table of Contents As of February 18, 2016 , the Mortgage Banker's Association ("MBA") estimated the size of the U.S. mortgage originations market as shown in the following table for 2014 - 2017 in its "Mortgage Finance Forecast" (in trillions): 2018 2017 2016 2015 Purchase transactions $ 1.0 $ 1.0 $ 1.0 $ 0.9 Refinance transactions 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.7 Total U.S. mortgage originations $ 1.3 $ 1.4 $ 1.5 $ 1.6 In 2014 the mix of mortgage originations between purchase and refinance transactions returned closer to historical norms. Driven by the decrease in refinance activity following an extended period of low interest rates, the ratio of refinances to total originations was approximately 40%. In 2015, the ratio of refinances to total originations was closer to 50% as anticipation of increased mortgage rates resulting from projected increases in the target federal funds rate weighed on the market. The MBA predicts the ratio will return to historical norms and decrease through 2018. The MBA predicts mortgage originations in 2016 through 2018 to decrease slightly compared to the 2015 period with a slight increase in purchase transactions expected to be offset by a decrease in refinance transactions. We expect the predicted change in mix, if it materializes, to have a positive effect on our earnings because purchase transactions involve the issuance of both a lender policy and an owner policy, resulting in higher fees, whereas refinance transactions only require a lender policy, resulting in lower fees. Because commercial real estate transactions tend to be driven more by supply and demand for commercial space and occupancy rates in a particular area rather than by interest rate fluctuations, we believe that our commercial real estate title insurance business is less dependent on the industry cycles discussed above than our residential real estate title business. Commercial real estate transaction volume is also often linked to the availability of financing. For the past several years, including the year ended December 31, 2015, we have experienced an increase in volume and fee per file of commercial transactions from the previous years, indicating strong commercial markets. In addition to state-level regulation, segments of our FNF core businesses are subject to regulation by federal agencies, including the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ( CFPB ). The CFPB was established under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 ("Dodd-Frank") which also included regulation over financial services and other lending related businesses including Black Knight. The CFPB has been given broad authority to regulate, among other areas, the mortgage and real estate markets in matters pertaining to consumers. This authority includes the enforcement of the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act formerly placed with the Department of Housing and Urban Development. On July 9, 2012, the CFPB introduced a number of proposed rules related to the enforcement of the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act and the Truth in Lending Act, including, among others, measures designed to (i) simplify financing documentation and (ii) require lenders to deliver to consumers a statement of final financing charges (and the related annual percentage rate) at least three business days prior to the closing. These rules became effective on January 10, 2014. On November 20, 2013, the CFPB issued additional rules regarding mortgage forms and other mortgage related disclosures with the intent to provide "easier-to-use" mortgage disclosure forms for the consumer. The additional disclosure requirements require participants in the mortgage market, including us, to make significant changes to the manner in which they create, process, and deliver certain disclosures to consumers in connection with mortgage loan applications. The additional disclosures are effective for mortgage loan applications made on or after October 3, 2015. The main provisions of the additional disclosures include amending Regulation Z (the Truth in Lending Act) and Regulation X (Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act) (collectively, the TILA-RESPA Integrated Disclosure" or "TRID ) to consolidate existing loan disclosures under TILA and RESPA for closed-end credit transactions secured by real property. TRID requires (i) timely delivery of a loan estimate upon receipt a consumer application and (ii) timely delivery of a closing disclosure prior to consummation. TRID also imposes certain restrictions, including the prohibition of imposing fees prior to provision of an estimate and the prohibition of providing estimates prior to a consumer submission of verifying documents. These changes could lead to lower mortgage volumes and/or delays in mortgage processing, particularly in the early stages of implementation. We do not believe the changes will have a significant effect on long term mortgage volumes and do not believe this had a material impact on our current year results from operations. Readiness for and compliance with TRID required extensive planning; changes to systems, forms and processes; as well as heightened coordination among market participants. We believe that FNF, its agents or other market participants have generally been successful in their implementation efforts. It is our experience that mortgage lenders have become more focused on the risk of non-compliance with these evolving regulations and are focused on technologies and solutions that help them to comply with the increased regulatory oversight and burdens. Black Knight has developed solutions that target this need, which has resulted in additional revenue. H istorically, real estate transactions have produced seasonal revenue levels for the real estate industry including title insurers. The first calendar quarter is typically the weakest quarter in terms of revenue due to the generally low volume of home sales during January and February. The third calendar quarter has been typically the strongest in terms of revenue primarily due to a higher volume of home sales in the summer months and the fourth quarter is usually also strong due to commercial entities desiring to 39 Table of Contents complete transactions by year-end. We have noted short term fluctuations through recent years in resale and refinance transactions as a result of changes in interest rates and the implementation and subsequent expiration of government programs designed to stimulate the real estate market. In 2014 and 2013, we saw seasonality trends return to historical patterns. During 2015, we experienced a moderate increase in existing home sales and we have also seen a decline in total housing inventory. However, we have experienced significant declines in refinance activity starting in the fourth quarter of 2013. Black Knight Underlying the mortgage loan life cycle is the technology and data and analytics support behind each process, which has become increasingly critical to industry participants due to the complexity of regulatory requirements. As the industry has grown in complexity, participants have responded by outsourcing to large scale specialty providers, automating manual processes and seeking end-to-end solutions that support the processes required to manage the entire mortgage loan life cycle. Black Knight's various businesses are impacted differently by the level of mortgage originations, including refinancing transactions. Black Knight's mortgage servicing platform is generally less affected by varying levels of mortgage originations because it earns revenues based on the total number of mortgage loans it processes, which tend to stay more constant than the market for originations. Black Knight's origination technology and some of their data businesses are directly affected by the volume of real estate transactions and mortgage originations, but many of their client contracts for origination technology contain minimum charges. Black Knight's various businesses are also impacted by general economic conditions. For example, in the event that a difficult economy or other factors lead to a decline in levels of home ownership and a reduction in the number of mortgage loans outstanding and Black Knight is not able to counter the impact of those events with increased market share or higher fees, it could have a material adverse effect on our mortgage processing revenues. In contrast, we believe that a weaker economy tends to increase the volume of consumer mortgage defaults, which can increase the revenues in Black Knight's specialty servicing technology business that is used to service residential mortgage loans in default. Also, interest rates tend to decline in a weaker economy driving higher than normal refinance transactions that provide potential volume increases to Black Knight's origination technology offerings, most specifically the RealEC Exchange platform. FNFV Restaurant Group The restaurant industry is highly competitive and is often affected by changes in consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns; changes in general economic conditions; public safety conditions or concerns; demographic trends; weather conditions; the cost of food products, labor, energy and other operating costs; and governmental regulations. The restaurant industry is also characterized by high capital investments for new restaurants and relatively high fixed or semi-variable restaurant operating expenses. Because of the high fixed and semi-variable expenses, changes in sales in existing restaurants are generally expected to significantly affect restaurant profitability because many restaurant costs and expenses are not expected to change at the same rate as sales. Restaurant profitability can also be negatively affected by inflationary and regulatory increases in operating costs and other factors. The most significant commodities that may affect our cost of food and beverage are beef, seafood, poultry, and dairy, which accounted for approximately half of our overall cost of food and beverage in the past. Generally, temporary increases in these costs are not passed on to guests; however, in the past, we have adjusted menu prices to compensate for increased costs of a more permanent nature. Average weekly sales per restaurant are typically higher in the first and fourth quarters than in other quarters, and we typically generate a disproportionate share of our earnings from operations in the first and fourth quarters. Holidays, severe weather and other disruptive conditions may impact sales volumes seasonally in some operating regions. Our revenues in future periods will continue to be subject to these and other factors that are beyond our control and, as a result, are likely to fluctuate. Critical Accounting Estimates The accounting estimates described below are those we consider critical in preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements. Management is required to make estimates and assumptions that can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures with respect to contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual amounts could differ from those estimates. See Note A of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional description of the significant accounting policies that have been followed in preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements. Reserve for Title Claim Losses. Title companies issue two types of policies, owner's and lender's policies, since both the new owner and the lender in real estate transactions want to know that their interest in the property is insured against certain title defects outlined in the policy. An owner's policy insures the buyer against such defects for as long as he or she owns the property (as well as against warranty claims arising out of the sale of the property by such owner). A lender's policy insures the priority of the 40 Table of Contents lender's security interest over the claims that other parties may have in the property. The maximum amount of liability under a title insurance policy is generally the face amount of the policy plus the cost of defending the insured's title against an adverse claim, however, occasionally we do incur losses in excess of policy limits. While most non-title forms of insurance, including property and casualty, provide for the assumption of risk of loss arising out of unforeseen future events, title insurance serves to protect the policyholder from risk of loss for events that predate the issuance of the policy. Unlike many other forms of insurance, title insurance requires only a one-time premium for continuous coverage until another policy is warranted due to changes in property circumstances arising from refinance, resale, additional liens, or other events. Unless we issue the subsequent policy, we receive no notice that our exposure under our policy has ended and, as a result, we are unable to track the actual terminations of our exposures. Our reserve for title claim losses includes reserves for known claims as well as for losses that have been incurred but not yet reported to us ( IBNR ), net of recoupments. We reserve for each known claim based on our review of the estimated amount of the claim and the costs required to settle the claim. Reserves for IBNR claims are estimates that are established at the time the premium revenue is recognized and are based upon historical experience and other factors, including industry trends, claim loss history, legal environment, geographic considerations, and the types of policies written. We also reserve for losses arising from closing and disbursement functions due to fraud or operational error. The table below summarizes our reserves for known claims and incurred but not reported claims related to title insurance: December 31, 2015 % December 31, 2014 % (in millions) Known claims $ 202 12.8 % $ 231 14.3 % IBNR 1,381 87.2 1,390 85.7 Total Reserve for Title Claim Losses $ 1,583 100.0 % $ 1,621 100.0 % Although claims against title insurance policies can be reported relatively soon after the policy has been issued, claims may be reported many years later. Historically, approximately 60% of claims are paid within approximately five years of the policy being written. By their nature, claims are often complex, vary greatly in dollar amounts and are affected by economic and market conditions, as well as the legal environment existing at the time of settlement of the claims. Estimating future title loss payments is difficult because of the complex nature of title claims, the long periods of time over which claims are paid, significantly varying dollar amounts of individual claims and other factors. Our process for recording our reserves for title claim losses begins with analysis of our loss provision rate. We forecast ultimate losses for each policy year based upon historical policy year loss emergence and development patterns and adjust these to reflect policy year and policy type differences which affect the timing, frequency and severity of claims. We also use a technique that relies on historical loss emergence and on a premium-based exposure measurement. The latter technique is particularly applicable to the most recent policy years, which have few reported claims relative to an expected ultimate claim volume. After considering historical claim losses, reporting patterns and current market information, and analyzing quantitative and qualitative data provided by our legal, claims and underwriting departments, we determine a loss provision rate, which is recorded as a percentage of current title premiums. This loss provision rate is set to provide for losses on current year policies, but due to development of prior years and our long claim duration, it periodically includes amounts of estimated adverse or positive development on prior years' policies. Any significant adjustments to strengthen or release loss reserves resulting from the comparison with our actuarial analysis are made in addition to this loss provision rate. At each quarter end, our recorded reserve for claim losses is initially the result of taking the prior recorded reserve for claim losses, adding the current provision and subtracting actual paid claims, resulting in an amount that management then compares to the range of reasonable estimates provided by the actuarial calculation. We recorded our loss provision rate at 5.5% for the last two quarters of 2015 and at 6.0% in the first two quarters of 2015 resulting in an average provision rate of 5.7% for the entire 2015 period. Our average loss provision rate was 6.2% and 7% for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Of such annual amounts, 5.2%, 5.5% and 5.3% related to losses on policies written in the current year, and the remainder relates to developments on prior year policies. The decrease in the loss provision rate during 2015 was primarily driven by positive development in the more recent policy years. In 2015, 2014, and 2013 adverse development of prior year losses of $22 million or 0.5% of 2015 premium, $26 million or 0.7% of 2014 premium and $71 million or 1.7% of 2013 premium was accounted for in the loss provision rate. Due to the uncertainty inherent in the process and due to the judgment used by both management and our actuary, our ultimate liability may be greater or less than our carried reserves. If the recorded amount is within the actuarial range but not at the central estimate, we assess the position within the actuarial range by analysis of other factors in order to determine that the recorded amount is our best estimate. These factors, which are both qualitative and quantitative, can change from period to period, and include items such as current trends in the real estate industry (which we can assess, but for which there is a time lag in the development of the data), any adjustments from the actuarial estimates needed for the effects of unusually large or small claims, improvements in our claims management processes, and other cost saving measures. If the recorded amount is not within a 41 Table of Contents reasonable range of our actuary's central estimate, we may have to record a charge or credit and reassess the loss provision rate on a go forward basis. We will continue to reassess the provision to be recorded in future periods consistent with this methodology. The table below presents our title insurance loss development experience for the past three years: 2015 2014 2013 (In millions) Beginning balance $ 1,621 $ 1,636 $ 1,748 Reserve assumed, net (1) 52 Reinsurance recoverable 1 7 Claims loss provision related to: Current year 224 202 220 Prior years 22 26 71 Total title claims loss provision 246 228 291 Claims paid, net of recoupments related to: Current year (7 ) (5 ) (9 ) Prior years (278 ) (297 ) (394 ) Total title claims paid, net of recoupments (285 ) (302 ) (403 ) Ending balance $ 1,583 $ 1,621 $ 1,636 Title premiums $ 4,286 $ 3,671 $ 4,152 _____________________ (1) Reserve of $54 million was recorded as part of the acquisition of LPS on January 2, 2014, and a reserve of $2 million was released as part of the sale of a small title operation. 2015 2014 2013 Provision for claim losses as a percentage of title insurance premiums: Current year 5.2 % 5.5 % 5.3 % Prior years 0.5 0.7 1.7 Total provision 5.7 % 6.2 % 7.0 % Actual claims payments are made up of loss payments and claims management expenses offset by recoupments and were as follows (in millions): Loss Payments Claims Management Expenses Recoupments Net Loss Payments Year ended December 31, 2015 $ 211 $ 137 $ (63 ) $ 285 Year ended December 31, 2014 207 151 (56 ) 302 Year ended December 31, 2013 323 162 (82 ) 403 As of December 31, 2015 and 2014 , our recorded reserves were $ 1,583 million and $ 1,621 million , respectively, which we determined were reasonable and represented our best estimate and these recorded amounts were within a reasonable range of the central estimates provided by our actuaries. Our recorded reserves were approximately $86 million above the mid-point of the range of our actuarial estimates as of December 31, 2015 , but within the provided actuarial range of $1.3 billion and $1.7 billion, and were $20 million above the mid-point of the range of our actuarial estimates as of December 31, 2014 . During 2015 and 2014, payment patterns were consistent with our actuaries and management's expectations. Also, we continued to see positive development relating to the 2009 through 2014 policy years, which we believe is indicative of more stringent underwriting standards by us and the lending industry. In addition we have seen significant positive development in residential owners policies due to increased payments on residential lenders policies which inherently limit the potential loss on the related owners policy to the differential in coverage amount between the amount insured under the owner's policy and the amount paid under the residential lender's policy. Also, any residential lender policy claim paid relating to a property that is in foreclosure negates any potential loss under an owner's policy previously issued on the property as the owner has no equity in the property. Along with the positive development on claims management expenses, our ending open claim inventory decreased from approximately 21,000 claims at December 31, 2014 to approximately 17,000 claims at December 31, 2015 . If actual claims loss 42 Table of Contents development varies from what is currently expected and is not offset by other factors, it is possible that our recorded reserves may fall outside a reasonable range of our actuary's central estimate, which may require additional reserve adjustments in future periods. An approximate $ 43 million increase (decrease) in our annualized provision for title claim losses would occur if our loss provision rate were 1% higher (lower), based on 2015 title premiums of $4,286 million . A 10% increase (decrease) in our reserve for title claim losses, as of December 31, 2015 , would result in an increase (decrease) in our provision for title claim losses of approximately $ 158 million. Valuation of Investments. We regularly review our investment portfolio for factors that may indicate that a decline in fair value of an investment is other-than-temporary. Some factors considered in evaluating whether or not a decline in fair value is other-than-temporary include: (i) our intent and need to sell the investment prior to a period of time sufficient to allow for a recovery in value; (ii) the duration and extent to which the fair value has been less than cost; and (iii) the financial condition and prospects of the issuer. Such reviews are inherently uncertain and the value of the investment may not fully recover or may decline in future periods resulting in a realized loss. Investments are selected for analysis whenever an unrealized loss is greater than a certain threshold that we determine based on the size of our portfolio or by using other qualitative factors. Fixed maturity investments that have unrealized losses caused by interest rate movements are not at risk as we do not anticipate having the need or intent to sell prior to maturity. Unrealized losses on investments in equity securities, preferred stock and fixed maturity instruments that are susceptible to credit related declines are evaluated based on the aforementioned factors. Currently available market data is considered and estimates are made as to the duration and prospects for recovery, and the intent or ability to retain the investment until such recovery takes place. These estimates are revisited quarterly and any material degradation in the prospect for recovery will be considered in the other-than-temporary impairment analysis. We believe that our monitoring and analysis has provided for the proper recognition of other-than-temporary impairments over the past three-year period. Any change in estimate in this area will have an impact on the results of operations of the period in which a charge is taken. The fair value hierarchy established by the standard on fair value includes three levels, which are based on the priority of the inputs to the valuation technique. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3). If the inputs used to measure the financial instruments fall within different levels of the hierarchy, the categorization is based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement of the instrument. In accordance with the standard on fair value, our financial assets and liabilities that are recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets are categorized based on the inputs to the valuation techniques as follows: Level 1. Financial assets and liabilities whose values are based on unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in an active market that we have the ability to access. Level 2. Financial assets and liabilities whose values are based on quoted prices in markets that are not active or model inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly for substantially the full term of the asset or liability. Level 3. Financial assets and liabilities whose values are based on model inputs that are unobservable. The following table presents our fair value hierarchy for those assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively: December 31, 2015 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total (In millions) Assets: Fixed-maturity securities available for sale: U.S. government and agencies $ $ 117 $ $ 117 State and political subdivisions 768 768 Corporate debt securities 1,495 1,495 Foreign government bonds 107 107 Mortgage-backed/asset-backed securities 71 71 Preferred stock available for sale 42 247 289 Equity securities available for sale 334 11 345 Total assets $ 376 $ 2,816 $ $ 3,192 43 Table of Contents December 31, 2014 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total (In millions) Assets: Fixed-maturity securities available for sale: U.S. government and agencies $ $ 115 $ $ 115 State and political subdivisions 948 948 Corporate debt securities 1,820 1,820 Foreign government bonds 37 37 Mortgage-backed/asset-backed securities 105 105 Preferred stock available for sale 50 173 223 Equity securities available for sale 145 145 Total assets $ 195 $ 3,198 $ $ 3,393 Our Level 2 fair value measures for fixed-maturities available for sale are provided by third-party pricing services. We utilize one firm for our taxable bond and preferred stock portfolios and another for our tax-exempt bond portfolio. These pricing services are leading global providers of financial market data, analytics and related services to financial institutions. We rely on one price for each instrument to determine the carrying amount of the assets on our balance sheet. The inputs utilized in these pricing methodologies include observable measures such as benchmark yields, reported trades, broker dealer quotes, issuer spreads, two sided markets, benchmark securities, bids, offers and reference data including market research publications. We review the pricing methodologies for all of our Level 2 securities by obtaining an understanding of the valuation models and assumptions used by the third-party as well as independently comparing the resulting prices to other publicly available measures of fair value and internally developed models. The pricing methodologies used by the relevant third party pricing services are: U.S. government and agencies: These securities are valued based on data obtained for similar securities in active markets and from inter-dealer brokers. State and political subdivisions: These securities are valued based on data obtained for similar securities in active markets and from inter-dealer brokers. Factors considered include relevant trade information, dealer quotes and other relevant market data. Corporate debt securities: These securities are valued based on dealer quotes and related market trading activity. Factors considered include the bond's yield, its terms and conditions, and any other feature which may influence its risk and thus marketability, as well as relative credit information and relevant sector news. Foreign government bonds: These securities are valued based on a discounted cash flow model incorporating observable market inputs such as available broker quotes and yields of comparable securities. Mortgage-backed/asset-backed securities: These securities are comprised of agency mortgage-backed securities, collateralized mortgage obligations, and asset-backed securities. They are valued based on available trade information, dealer quotes, cash flows, relevant indices and market data for similar assets in active markets. Preferred stocks: Preferred stocks are valued by calculating the appropriate spread over a comparable U.S. Treasury security. Inputs include benchmark quotes and other relevant market data. Equity securities available for sale: This security is valued using a blending of two models, a discounted cash flow model and a comparable company model utilizing earnings and multiples of similar publicly-traded companies. Prior to December 31, 2014 our Level 2 financial assets and liabilities included our interest rate swap, foreign exchange contracts, and commodity contracts which were valued using the income approach. This approach uses techniques to convert future amounts to a single present value amount based upon market expectations (including present value techniques, option-pricing and excess earnings models). As of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 we no longer hold these Level 2 financial assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 we held no assets nor liabilities measured at fair value using Level 3 inputs. During the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013, we incurred impairment charges relating to investments that were determined to be other-than-temporarily impaired of $14 million , $ 6 million, and $1 million, respectively. Impairment charges during all three years related to fixed maturity securities primarily related to our conclusion that the credit risk of these holdings was high and the ability of the issuer to pay the full amount of the principal outstanding was unlikely. Impairment charges in the 2015 period also included an immaterial portion related to equity securities. 44 Table of Contents Included in our Investments as of December 31, 2015 are various holdings in Foreign securities as follows (in millions): Carrying Value Cost Basis Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Market Value (In millions) Available for sale securities: Australia $ 18 $ 19 $ (1 ) $ 18 Belgium 18 18 18 Cayman Islands 3 3 3 Canada 52 59 (7 ) 52 China 12 12 12 Curacao 13 13 13 France 12 12 12 Germany 35 36 (1 ) 35 Ireland 21 21 21 Japan 58 58 58 Korea 13 13 13 Netherlands 13 13 13 Norway 13 13 13 New Zealand 73 79 (6 ) 73 Switzerland 9 9 9 United Kingdom 64 64 1 (1 ) 64 Total $ 427 $ 442 $ 1 $ (16 ) $ 427 We have reviewed all of these securities as of December 31, 2015 and do not believe that there is a risk of significant credit loss as these securities are in a gross unrealized gain position of $1 million and a gross unrealized loss position of $16 million . We held no European sovereign debt at December 31, 2015 . Goodwill. We have made acquisitions in the past that have resulted in a significant amount of goodwill. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014 , goodwill aggregated was $ 4,760 million and $ 4,721 million, respectively. The majority of our goodwill as of December 31, 2015 relates to goodwill recorded in connection with the LPS acquisition on January 2, 2014, as well as the Chicago Title merger in 2000. In evaluating the recoverability of goodwill, we perform a qualitative analysis to determine whether it is more likely than not that our fair value exceeds our carrying value. Based on the results of this analysis, an annual goodwill impairment test may be completed based on an analysis of the discounted future cash flows generated by the underlying assets. The process of determining whether or not goodwill is impaired or recoverable relies on projections of future cash flows, operating results and market conditions. Future cash flow estimates are based partly on projections of market conditions such as the volume and mix of refinance and purchase transactions and interest rates, which are beyond our control and are likely to fluctuate. While we believe that our estimates of future cash flows are reasonable, these estimates are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ from what is assumed in our impairment tests. Such analyses are particularly sensitive to changes in estimates of future cash flows and discount rates. Changes to these estimates might result in material changes in fair value and determination of the recoverability of goodwill, which may result in charges against earnings and a reduction in the carrying value of our goodwill in the future.We have completed our annual goodwill impairment analysis in each of the past three years and as a result, no impairment charges were recorded to goodwill in 2015 , 2014 , or 2013 . As of December 31, 2015 , we have determined that our goodwill has a fair value which substantially exceeds our carrying value. Other Intangible Assets. We have other intangible assets, not including goodwill, which consist primarily of customer relationships and contracts and trademarks which are generally recorded in connection with acquisitions at their fair value. Intangible assets with estimable lives are amortized over their respective estimated useful lives to their estimated residual values and reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. In general, customer relationships are amortized over their estimated useful lives using an accelerated method which takes into consideration expected customer attrition rates. Contractual relationships are generally amortized over their contractual life. Trademarks are generally considered intangible assets with indefinite lives and are reviewed for impairment at least annually. Debt issuance costs are amortized on a straight line basis over the contractual life of the related debt instrument. 45 Table of Contents We recorded a $11 million impairment expense to Tradenames in our Restaurant Group segment during the year ended December 31, 2014 . We recorded no impairment expense related to other intangible assets in the years ended December 31, 2015 or 2013 . Title Revenue Recognition. Our direct title insurance premiums and escrow, title-related and other fees are recognized as revenue at the time of closing of the related transaction as the earnings process is then considered complete. Premium revenues from agency operations and agency commissions include an accrual based on estimates using historical information of the volume of transactions that have closed in a particular period for which premiums have not yet been reported to us. The accrual for agency premiums is necessary because of the lag between the closing of these transactions and the reporting of these policies to us by the agent. Historically, the time lag between the closing of these transactions by our agents and the reporting of these policies, or premiums, to us has been up to 15 months, with 86 - 89% reported within three months following closing, an additional 9 - 11% reported within the next three months and the remainder within seven to fifteen months. In addition to accruing these earned but unreported agency premiums, we also accrue agent commission expense, which was 76.0% of agent premiums earned in 2015 , 75.7 % of agent premiums earned in 2014 and 76.1% of agent premiums earned in 2013 . We also record provision for claim losses at our average provision rate at the time we record the accrual for the premiums, which was 5.7% for 2015 , 6.2% for 2014 and 7.0% for 2013 , and accruals for premium taxes and other expenses relating to our premium accrual. The resulting impact to pretax earnings in any period is less than 10% of the accrued premium amount. The impact of the change in the accrual for agency premiums and related expenses on our pretax earnings was a decrease of $ 5 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 , a decrease of $ 9 million for the year ended 2014 and a decrease of $ 7 million for the year ended 2013 . The amount due from our agents relating to this accrual, i.e., the agent premium less their contractual retained commission, was approximately $ 45 million and $ 55 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively, which represents agency premiums of approximately $ 230 million and $ 276 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively, and agent commissions of $ 185 million and $ 221 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. We may have changes in our accrual for agency revenue in the future if additional relevant information becomes available. Black Knight Revenue Recognition. Within our Black Knight segment, our primary types of revenues and our revenue recognition policies as they pertain to the types of contractual arrangements we enter into with our customers to provide services, software licenses, and software-related services either individually or as part of an integrated offering of multiple services. These arrangements occasionally include offerings from more than one segment to the same customer. We recognize revenues relating to mortgage processing, outsourced business processing services, data and analytics services, along with software licensing and software-related services. In some cases, these services are offered in combination with one another, and in other cases we offer them individually. Revenues from processing services are typically volume-based depending on factors such as the number of accounts processed, transactions processed and computer resources utilized. The majority of our revenues are from outsourced data processing and application hosting, data, analytic and valuation related services, and outsourced business processing services. Revenue is realized or realizable and earned when all of the following criteria are met: (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (2) delivery has occurred or services have been rendered; (3) the seller price to the buyer is fixed or determinable; and (4) collectibility is reasonably assured. For hosting arrangements, revenues and costs related to implementation, conversion and programming services are deferred and subsequently recognized using the straight-line method over the term of the related services agreement. We evaluate these deferred contract costs for impairment in the event any indications of impairment exist. In the event that our arrangements with our customers include more than one element, we determine whether the individual revenue elements can be recognized separately. In arrangements with multiple deliverables, the delivered items are considered separate units of accounting if (1) they have value on a standalone basis and (2) performance of the undelivered items is considered probable and within our control. Arrangement consideration is then allocated to the separate units of accounting based on relative selling price. If it exists, vendor-specific objective evidence is used to determine relative selling price, otherwise third-party evidence of selling price is used. If neither exists, the best estimate of selling price is used for the deliverable. For multiple element software arrangements, we determine the appropriate units of accounting and how the arrangement consideration should be measured and allocated to the separate units. Initial license fees are recognized when a contract exists, the fee is fixed or determinable, software delivery has occurred and collection of the receivable is deemed probable, provided that vendor-specific objective evidence ( VSOE ) has been established for each element or for any undelivered elements. We determine the fair value of each element or the undelivered elements in multi-element software arrangements based on VSOE. VSOE for each element is based on the price charged when the same element is sold separately, or in the case of post-contract customer support, when a stated renewal rate is provided to the customer. If evidence of fair value of all undelivered elements exists but evidence does not exist for one or more delivered elements, then revenue is recognized using the residual method. Under the residual method, the fair value of the undelivered elements is deferred and the remaining portion of the arrangement fee is recognized as revenue. If evidence of fair value does not exist for one or more undelivered elements of a contract, then all revenue is deferred until all elements are delivered or fair value is determined for all remaining undelivered elements. Revenue from post-contract customer support is recognized ratably over the term of the agreement. We record deferred revenue for all billings invoiced prior to revenue recognition. 46 Table of Contents Accounting for Income Taxes. As part of the process of preparing the consolidated financial statements, we are required to determine income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves estimating actual current tax expense together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing recognition of items for income tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred income tax assets and liabilities, which are included within the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We must then assess the likelihood that deferred income tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income and, to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, establish a valuation allowance. To the extent we establish a valuation allowance or increase this allowance in a period, we must reflect this increase as expense within Income tax expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Determination of income tax expense requires estimates and can involve complex issues that may require an extended period to resolve. Further, the estimated level of annual pre-tax income can cause the overall effective income tax rate to vary from period to period. We believe that our tax positions comply with applicable tax law and that we adequately provide for any known tax contingencies. We believe the estimates and assumptions used to support our evaluation of tax benefit realization are reasonable. Final determination of prior-year tax liabilities, either by settlement with tax authorities or expiration of statutes of limitations, could be materially different than estimates reflected in assets and liabilities and historical income tax provisions. The outcome of these final determinations could have a material effect on our income tax provision, net income or cash flows in the period that determination is made. Capitalized Software. Capitalized software includes the fair value of software acquired in business combinations, purchased software and capitalized software development costs. Purchased software is recorded at cost and amortized using the straight-line method over its estimated useful life. Software acquired in business combinations is recorded at its fair value and amortized using straight-line or accelerated methods over its estimated useful life, ranging from 5 to 10 years. In our Black Knight segment we have significant internally developed software. These costs are amortized using the straight-line or an accelerated method over the estimated useful life. Useful lives of computer software range from 3 to 10 years. For software products to be sold, leased, or otherwise marketed, all costs incurred to establish the technological feasibility are research and development costs, and are expensed as they are incurred. Costs incurred subsequent to establishing technological feasibility, such as programmers' salaries and related payroll costs and costs of independent contractors, are capitalized and amortized on a product by product basis commencing on the date of general release to customers. We do not capitalize any costs once the product is available for general release to customers. For internal-use computer software products, internal and external costs incurred during the preliminary project stage are expensed as they are incurred. Internal and external costs incurred during the application development stage are capitalized and amortized on a product by product basis commencing on the date the software is ready for its intended use. We do not capitalize any costs once the software is ready for its intended use. We also assess the recorded value of computer software for impairment on a regular basis by comparing the carrying value to the estimated future cash flows to be generated by the underlying software asset. There is an inherent uncertainty in determining the expected useful life of or cash flows to be generated from computer software. We recorded impairment charges of $1 million and $5 million in the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, for abandoned software development projects. We did not record any impairments for software in the year ended December 31, 2013. Certain Factors Affecting Comparability Year ended December 31, 2015. On September 28, 2015 we distributed all of our shares of J. Alexander's to the holders of FNFV Group Common Stock. As a result of this distribution, the results of operations for the year-ended December 31, 2015 include the results from J. Alexander's through the date of the distribution. Year ended December 31, 2014. On January 2, 2014, we completed the purchase of LPS. As a result of this acquisition we began to consolidate the results of LPS effective January 3, 2014. On December 31, 2014, we distributed all of our shares in Remy to the holders of FNFV Group Common Stock. As a result of this distribution, the operations for Remy are presented as discontinued operations for all periods presented. 47 Table of Contents Results of Operations Consolidated Results of Operations Net earnings. The following table presents certain financial data for the years indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 (Dollars in millions) Revenue: Direct title insurance premiums $ 2,009 $ 1,727 $ 1,800 Agency title insurance premiums 2,277 1,944 2,352 Escrow, title-related and other fees 3,324 2,804 1,737 Restaurant revenue 1,412 1,436 1,408 Interest and investment income 123 126 127 Realized gains and losses, net (13 ) (13 ) 16 Total revenue 9,132 8,024 7,440 Expenses: Personnel costs 2,671 2,540 2,061 Agent commissions 1,731 1,471 1,789 Other operating expenses 1,881 1,643 1,273 Cost of restaurant revenue 1,195 1,220 1,204 Depreciation and amortization 410 403 133 Provision for title claim losses 246 228 291 Interest expense 131 127 73 Total expenses 8,265 7,632 6,824 Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in (loss) earnings of unconsolidated affiliates 867 392 616 Income tax expense 290 312 195 Equity in (loss) earnings of unconsolidated affiliates (16 ) 432 (26 ) Net earnings from continuing operations $ 561 $ 512 $ 395 Revenues. Total revenue in 2015 increased $1,108 million compared to 2014 , primarily due to an increase in closed order volumes in our direct business, increases in agent remittances, an increase in revenue in our Black Knight segment, and increases related to businesses acquired in the current year and late 2014 . Total revenue in 2014 increased $584 million compared to 2013 , primarily due to the addition of revenue from the acquisition of LPS on January 2, 2014, as well as an incr ease in the Restaurant Group segment and the FNFV Corporate and Other segment, offset by a decrease in the Title segment and FNF Core Corporate and Other segments. Total net earnings from continuing operations increased $49 million in the year ended December 31, 2015 , compared to the 2014 period. The increase consisted of a $310 million increase at FNF Core and $261 million decrease at FNFV. Total net earnings from continuing operations increased $ 117 million in the year ended December 31, 2014 , compared to the 2013 period. The increase consisted of a $175 million decrease at FNF Core and $292 million increase at FNFV. The change in revenue and net earnings from the FNF Core segments and FNFV segments is discussed in further detail at the segment level below. Interest and investmen t income levels are primarily a function of securities markets, interest rates and the amount of cash available for investment. Interest and investment income was $123 million , $126 million , and $127 million for the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , respectively. The decrease in 2015 as compared to 2014 is primarily attributable to decreased bond yields and a change in portfolio mix. The decrease in 2014 as compared to 2013 is due to decreased bond yield and decreased total holdings. The effective return on average invested assets, excluding realized gains and losses, was 3.4% , 3.6% , and 4.1% for the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , respectively. Net realized (losses) and gains totaled $(13) million , $(13) million , and $16 million for the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , respectively. The net realized loss for the year ended December 31, 2015 includes a net realized gain of $1 million on our investment portfolio, net realized gains of $16 million due to favorable settlement of litigation, net realized losses of $19 million due to impairment of long-lived assets at our Restaurant Group, net realized losses of $5 million on early redemption of 48 Table of Contents Black Knight corporate bonds, and $6 million of miscellaneous other net realized losses. The net realized loss for the year ended December 31, 2014 includes net realized gains of $9 million on the sales of various investments and gains of $11 million on consolidation of previously owned minority interests. These gains were offset by a $6 million impairment write down on bonds, asset impairments of $25 million, and $2 million in losses on other individually insignificant items. The net realized gain for the year ended December 31, 2013 includes an $11 million gain on the sale of FIS stock, a $10 million gain on individually insignificant portfolio sales, a $5 million net gain on sales of preferred stock, and a $3 million gain on the settlement of a mortgage loan at J. Alexander's. These gains were offset by a $3 million loss on the structured notes, $4 million in title plant impairments and $6 million in other individually insignificant impairments and net losses. Expenses. Our operating expenses consist primarily of personnel costs; other operating expenses, which in our title business are incurred as orders are received and processed and at Black Knight are incurred for data processing; agent commissions, which are incurred as revenue is recognized; and cost of restaurant revenue. Title insurance premiums, escrow and title-related fees are generally recognized as income at the time the underlying transaction closes or other service is provided. Direct title operations revenue often lags approximately 45-60 days behind expenses and therefore gross margins may fluctuate. The changes in the market environment, mix of business between direct and agency operations and the contributions from our various business units have historically impacted margins and net earnings. We have implemented programs and have taken necessary actions to maintain expense levels consistent with revenue streams. However, a short time lag exists in reducing variable costs and certain fixed costs are incurred regardless of revenue levels. Personnel costs include base salaries, commissions, benefits, stock-based compensation and bonuses paid to employees, and are one of our most significant operating expenses. Personnel costs that are directly attributable to the operations of the Restaurant Group are included in Cost of restaurant revenue. Agent commissions represent the portion of premiums retained by our third-party agents pursuant to the terms of their respective agency contracts. Other operating expenses consist primarily of facilities expenses, title plant maintenance, premium taxes (which insurance underwriters are required to pay on title premiums in lieu of franchise and other state taxes), appraisal fees and other cost of sales on ServiceLink product offerings and other title related products, postage and courier services, computer services, professional services, travel expenses, general insurance, and bad debt expense on our trade and notes receivable. Cost of restaurant revenue includes cost of food and beverage, primarily the costs of beef, groceries, produce, seafood, poultry and alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages, net of vendor discounts and rebates, payroll and related costs and expenses directly relating to restaurant level activities, and restaurant operating costs including occupancy and other operating expenses at the restaurant level. The provision for title claim losses includes an estimate of anticipated title and title-related claims, and escrow losses. The change in expenses from the FNF Core segments and FNFV segments is discussed in further detail at the segment level below. Income tax expense was $290 million , $312 million , and $195 million for the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , respectively. Income tax expense as a percentage of earnings from continuing operations before income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 was 33.4% , 79.6% , and 31.7% , respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate in 2015 from 2014 is primarily related to reduced taxes associated with the reduction in Equity in (loss) earnings of unconsolidated affiliates. The increase in the effective tax rate in 2014 from 2013 is due mainly to the $495 million pre-tax gain of the Ceridian sale of Comdata to FleetCor, which was 43.2% of the effective tax rate; excluding the gain, the effective tax rate for 2014 was 36.5%. Apart from the Comdata sale gain, the fluctuation in income tax expense as a percentage of earnings from continuing operations before income taxes is attributable to our estimate of ultimate income tax liability and changes in the characteristics of net earnings year to year, such as the weighting of operating income versus investment income. Equity in (loss) earnings of unconsolidated affiliates was $(16) million , $432 million , and $(26) million for the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , respectively, and consisted of our equity in the net (loss) earnings of Ceridian and other investments in unconsolidated affiliates. The decrease in 2015 a nd the increase in 2014 are primarily due to our $495 million portion of the Ceridian gain on the sale of Comdata to Fleetcor in 2014. 49 Table of Contents Segment Results of Operations FNF Core Operations Title Beginning January 2, 2014, the Title segment includes the results of the transaction services business acquired with LPS. The following table presents certain financial data for the years indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 (In millions) Revenues: Direct title insurance premiums $ 2,009 $ 1,727 $ 1,800 Agency title insurance premiums 2,277 1,944 2,352 Escrow, title-related and other fees 2,005 1,855 1,597 Interest and investment income 123 122 127 Realized gains and losses, net 14 (4 ) 18 Total revenue 6,428 5,644 5,894 Expenses: Personnel costs 2,090 1,896 1,845 Other operating expenses 1,381 1,370 1,096 Agent commissions 1,731 1,471 1,789 Depreciation and amortization 144 145 65 Provision for title claim losses 246 228 291 Total expenses 5,592 5,110 5,086 Earnings before income taxes $ 836 $ 534 $ 808 Orders opened by direct title operations (in 000's) 2,092 1,914 2,181 Orders closed by direct title operations (in 000's) 1,472 1,319 1,708 Total revenues in 2015 increased $784 million or 13.9% compared to 2014 . Total revenues in 2014 decreased $250 million or 4.2% compared to 2013 . The increase in the year ended December 31, 2015 is primarily attributable to improvements in the overall real estate markets driving increases in closed order volumes as well as current year acquisitions. The decrease in revenue in the year ended December 31, 2014 was primarily driven by decreased closed order volume. During the year ended December 31, 2015 the results of Title included increased Personnel costs, Agent commissions, and Provision for title claim losses associated with the increased title premium revenue. During the year ended December 31, 2014 , the results of Title contained $35 million of transaction expenses related to the LPS acquisition and $1 million for merger related litigation, which were included in other operating expenses. Included within personnel costs in the year ended December 31, 2014 were $20 million in severance expenses related to the LPS acquisition and $30 million expense to accrue for bonuses under our synergy bonus program. Depreciation and amortization for the year ended December 31, 2014 included $88 million related to assets acquired with LPS and marked to fair value in purchase accounting. The following table presents the percentages of title insurance premiums generated by our direct and agency operations: Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 Amount % Amount % Amount % (Dollars in millions) Title premiums from direct operations $ 2,009 46.9 % $ 1,727 47.0 % $ 1,800 43.4 % Title premiums from agency operations 2,277 53.1 1,944 53.0 2,352 56.6 Total title premiums $ 4,286 100.0 % $ 3,671 100.0 % $ 4,152 100.0 % 50 Table of Contents Title premiums increased 16.8% in the year ended December 31, 2015 as compared to the 2014 period. The increase was made up of an increase in premiums from direct operations of $282 million , or 16.3% and an increase in premiums from agency operations of $333 million , or 17.1% . Title premiums decreased 12% in the year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to the 2013 period. The decrease was made up of a decrease in premiums from direct operations of $73 million, or 4%, and a decrease in premiums from agency operations of $408 million, or 17%. The following table presents the percentages of opened and closed title insurance orders generated by purchase and refinance transactions by our direct operations: Year ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 Opened title insurance orders from purchase transactions (1) 54.0 % 57.4 % 46.1 % Opened title insurance orders from refinance transactions (1) 46.0 42.6 53.9 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Closed title insurance orders from purchase transactions (1) 54.5 % 58.6 % 42.6 % Closed title insurance orders from refinance transactions (1) 45.5 41.4 57.4 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % _______________________________________ (1) Percentages exclude consideration of an immaterial number of non-purchase and non-refinance orders. Title premiums from direct operations increased in 2015 , primarily due to an increase in closed order volumes as compared to the prior year. Closed order volumes were 1,472,000 in the year ended December 31, 2015 compared with 1,319,000 in the year ended December 31, 2014 . This represented an increase of 11.6% . The increase in closed order volumes was primarily related to a significant increase in purchase and refinance transactions in the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the 2014 period. Open title orders increased consistently with closed orders in the 2015 period. The average fee per file in our direct operations was $2,065 in the year ended December 31, 2015 , compared to $2,014 in the year ended December 31, 2014 . The increase in average fee per file reflects an increase in commercial transactions which have a higher fee per file and an increase in residential purchase transactions overall, offset by a higher proportion of refinance to purchase transactions from our residential title revenue. The fee per file tends to change as the mix of refinance and purchase transactions changes, because purchase transactions involve the issuance of both a lender policy and an owner policy, resulting in higher fees, whereas refinance transactions only require a lender policy, resulting in lower fees. The increase in title premiums from agency operations is primarily the result of the overall increase in real estate activity since the prior year. The increase was consistent with the aforementioned increase in direct operations. Escrow, title related and other fees increased by $150 million , or 8.1% , in the year ended December 31, 2015 from the 2014 period. Escrow fees, which are more directly related to our direct operations, increased $111 million, or 19%, in the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the 2014 period. The increase is consistent with the increase in direct title premiums. Other fees in the Title segment, excluding escrow fees, increased $39 million, or 3.0%, in the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the 2014 period. The increase in other fees was primarily attributable to revenue associated with BPG acquired in the current year. Escrow, title related and other fees increased by $258 million , or 16% , in the year ended December 31, 2014 from the 2013 period. Escrow fees, which are more directly related to our direct operations, decreased $107 million, or 16%, in the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to the 2013 period. The decrease is consistent with the decrease in direct title premiums. Other fees in the Title segment, excluding escrow fees, increased $364 million, or 40%, in the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to the 2013 period. The increase in other fees was primarily due to the addition of $233 million in the year ended December 31, 2014 related to the transaction services business acquired from LPS on January 2, 2014. Interest and investment income levels are primarily a function of securities markets, interest rates and the amount of cash available for investment. Interest and investment income increased $1 million in the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the 2014 period and decreased $5 million in the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to the 2013 period. The increase in 2015 is attributable to a change in portfolio mix and market conditions. The decrease in 2014 is attributable primarily to decreases in market interest rates and in turn lower bond yields. Personnel costs include base salaries, commissions, benefits, stock-based compensation and bonuses paid to employees, and are one of our most significant operating expenses. The $194 million , or 10.2% increase in the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the 2014 period is primarily related to additional expense associated with the increased order volumes, acquisitions in the current year, and increased costs associated with the implementation of TRID. Personnel costs as a percentage 51 Table of Contents of total revenues from direct title premiums and escrow, title-related and other fees was 52.1% and 53% for the years ended December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 , respectively. Average employee count in the Title segment was 20,819 and 19,470 in the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. The increase in the 2015 period is attributable to the aforementioned increase in order volumes and implementation of TRID. Other operating expenses consist primarily of facilities expenses, title plant maintenance, premium taxes (which insurance underwriters are required to pay on title premiums in lieu of franchise and other state taxes), postage and courier services, computer services, professional services, travel expenses, general insurance, and bad debt expense on our trade and notes receivable. Other operating expenses increased $11 million , or 0.8% in the year ended December 31, 2015 from the 2014 period. Other operating expenses increased consistent with the increase in direct title premiums and escrow, title-related and other fee income offset by other miscellaneous cost reductions. Agent commissions represent the portion of premiums retained by agents pursuant to the terms of their respective agency contracts. Agent commissions and the resulting percentage of agent premiums we retain vary according to regional differences in real estate closing practices and state regulations. The following table illustrates the relationship of agent title premiums and agent commissions: Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 Amount % Amount % Amount % (Dollars in millions) Agent title premiums $ 2,277 100.0 % $ 1,944 100.0 % $ 2,352 100.0 % Agent commissions 1,731 76.0 1,471 75.7 1,789 76.1 Net retained agent premiums $ 546 24.0 % $ 473 24.3 % $ 563 23.9 % Net margin from agency title insurance premiums retained as a percentage of total agency premiums in the year ended December 31, 2015 remained consistent with the 2014 and 2013 periods. The provision for title claim losses includes an estimate of anticipated title and title-related claims and escrow losses. T he estimate of anticipated title and title-related claims is accrued as a percentage of title premium revenue based on our historical loss experience and other relevant factors. Any significant adjustments to strengthen or release loss reserves resulting from the comparison with our actuarial analysis are made in addition to this loss provision rate. After considering historical claim losses, reporting patterns and current market information, and analyzing quantitative and qualitative data provided by our legal, claims and underwriting departments, we determine a loss provision rate, which is recorded as a percentage of current title premiums. This loss provision rate is set to provide for losses on current year policies, but due to development of prior years and our long claim duration, it periodically includes amounts of estimated adverse or positive development on prior years' policies. Effective July 1, 2015, we revised our loss provision rate to 5.5% from 6% primarily due to favorable development on more recent policy year claims. The claim loss provision for title insurance was $246 million , $228 million , and $291 million for the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , respectively. These amounts reflected average claim loss provision rates of 5.7% for 2015 , 6.2% for 2014 , and 7.0% of title premiums for 2013 . We will continue to monitor and evaluate our loss provision level, actual claims paid, and the loss reserve position each quarter. 52 Table of Contents Black Knight The results of this segment for the years ended December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, include the results of Black Knight and subsidiaries, which were initially consolidated on January 2, 2014, the date on which we acquired LPS. Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 Revenues: Escrow, title related and other fees $ 931 $ 852 Realized gains and losses, net (5 ) Total revenues 926 852 Expenses: Personnel costs 382 449 Other operating expenses 161 199 Depreciation and amortization 194 188 Interest expense 50 31 Total expenses 787 867 Earnings (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes $ 139 $ (15 ) Total revenues for Black Knight segment increased $74 million in the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the 2014 period. The increase was driven by higher loan counts as well as increased usage and communication fees in their servicing technology business; by increased professional services and processing revenues from loan origination systems clients and revenues from Closing Insight clients in their origination technology business; and by additional revenue from long-term strategic license deals in its data and analytics segment. The results of the Black Knight segment were also improved by the reduction in costs related to the acquisition and integration of LPS by FNF on January 2, 2014. Transition and integration costs were $119 million in the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to $8 million in the 2015 period. The reduction related to transition and integration costs was offset by an increase in interest expense of $19 million related to the addition of third-party debt in the current year. Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes increased $154 million in the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the 2014 period. The increase is primarily attributable to the increased revenue and decreased costs discussed above. FNF Core Corporate and Other The FNF Core Corporate and Other segment consists of the operations of the parent holding company, certain other unallocated corporate overhead expenses, and other smaller real estate and insurance related operations. Also included in this segment are eliminations of revenues and expenses between our other core segments. The FNF Core Corporate and Other segment generated revenues of $180 million , $(6) million and $49 million for the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. The revenue in the 2014 and 2015 periods includes the elimination of revenues between our Black Knight segment and our Title segment offset by revenue at other subsidiaries within the segment. The increase in the year ended December 31, 2015 is primarily driven by revenue of $183 million from Pacific Union, a luxury real estate broker based in California in which we acquired a controlling stake in December 2014. The decrease in the 2014 period from the 2013 period is due to inclusion of an elimination of revenues between our BKFS segment and our Title segment, which we began eliminating upon the acquisition of LPS in 2014. Other operating expenses in the FNF Core Corporate and Other segment were $172 million , $(12) million and $93 million for the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. The expense in the 2014 and 2015 periods includes the elimination of expenses between our Black Knight segment and our Title segment offset by expense at other subsidiaries within the segment. The increase in the 2015 period from the 2014 period is primarily due to expenses of $162 million from Pacific Union. The decrease in the 2014 period from the 2013 period is due to a $29 million allocation of transaction costs from the FNF Core Corporate segment to BKFS in 2014 and the 2013 period including a $20 million accrual related to an employment litigation matter and $3 million in transaction costs related to the LPS acquisition. Interest expense was $72 million , $91 million and $68 million for the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. The decrease in the 2015 period from the 2014 period is due to the payoff of our FNF term loan offset by interest on additional notes entered into by Black Knight. The increase in the 2014 period from the 2013 period is due to additional borrowings in January 2014 to finance the acquisition of LPS. 53 Table of Contents This segment generated pretax losses of $113 million , $113 million and $152 million for the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. FNFV Restaurant Group The results of operations for the Restaurant Group for the year ended December 31, 2015 include the results of J. Alexander's through September 29, 2015, the date it was distributed to common shareholders of FNFV. All other periods include the results of operations for J. Alexander's for the full year indicated. The following table presents the results from operations of our Restaurant Group segment: Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 (In millions) Revenues: Restaurant revenue $ 1,412 $ 1,436 $ 1,408 Realized gains and losses, net (19 ) (13 ) (1 ) Total revenues 1,393 1,423 1,407 Expenses: Personnel costs 65 69 65 Cost of restaurant revenue 1,195 1,220 1,204 Other operating expenses 71 61 65 Depreciation and amortization 49 52 53 Interest expense 6 8 8 Total expenses 1,386 1,410 1,395 Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes $ 7 $ 13 $ 12 Total revenues for the Restaurant group segment decreased $30 million , or 2.1% in the year ended December 31, 2015 from the 2014 period primarily due to the inclusion of the results of J. Alexander's through September 29, 2015 compared to the full calendar year 2014. Total revenues for the Restaurant group segment increased $16 million , or 1.1% in the year ended December 31, 2014 from the 2013 period primarily due to increased same store sales at ABRH and J. Alexander's. Cost of restaurant revenue decreased $25 million or 2.0% in the year ended December 31, 2015 from the 2014 period. Cost of restaurant revenue increased $16 million or 1.3% in the year ended December 31, 2014 from the 2013 period. The change in both periods is consistent with the change in total revenue. Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes decreased $6 million in the year ended December 31, 2015 from the 2014 period. Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes increased $1 million in the year ended December 31, 2014 from the 2013 period. FNFV Corporate and Other The FNFV Core Corporate and Other segment consists of the operations of the parent holding company including Digital Insurance, operations of our unconsolidated investment in Ceridian, certain other unallocated corporate overhead expenses, and other smaller real estate and insurance related operations. The FNFV Corporate and Other segment generated revenues of $205 million , $111 million , and $90 million f or the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , respectively. Revenues increased $94 million in 2015 compared to 2014 primarily due to $85 million of revenue recorded related to the sale of Cascade Timberlands in January 2015 and increased revenue at Digital Insurance resulting from current period acquisitions. Personnel costs were $92 million , $101 million , and $114 million in the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , respectively. The decrease in the 2015 period of $9 million is primarily due to the inclusion of $19 million of expense related to our Investment Success Incentive Program in the 2014 period, offset by increased costs related to current period acquisitions. The decrease in the 2014 period from the 2013 period is due to the inclusion of an accrual related to our Long Term Incentive Plan, offset by the aforementioned additional expense in 2014. Other operating expenses for the FNFV Corporate and Other segment were $96 million, $25 million, and $19 million in the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The increase of $72 million in the current year is primarily attributable to $73 million in expense recorded related to the sale of Cascade Timberlands. 54 Table of Contents This segment generated pretax losses of $2 million , $27 million , and $52 million for the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , respectively. The increase in the 2015 period is attributable to the aforementioned changes in revenues and other operating expenses. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Requirements. Our current cash requirements include personnel costs, operating expenses, claim payments, taxes, payments of interest and principal on our debt, capital expenditures, business acquisitions, stock repurchases and dividends on our common stock. We paid dividends of $ 0.80 per share during 2015 , or approximately $ 220 million. On February 3, 2016 , our Board of Directors formally declared a $0.21 per share cash dividend that is payable on March 31, 2016 to FNF Group shareholders of record as of March 17, 2016 . There are no restrictions on our retained earnings regarding our ability to pay dividends to shareholders, although there are limits on the ability of certain subsidiaries to pay dividends to us, as described below. The declaration of any future dividends is at the discretion of our Board of Directors. Additional uses of cash flow are expected to include stock repurchases, acquisitions, and debt repayments. We continually assess our capital allocation strategy, including decisions relating to the amount of our dividend, reducing debt, repurchasing our stock, and/or conserving cash. We believe that all anticipated cash requirements for current operations will be met from internally generated funds, through cash dividends from subsidiaries, cash generated by investment securities, potential sales of non-strategic assets, and borrowings on existing credit facilities. Our short-term and long-term liquidity requirements are monitored regularly to ensure that we can meet our cash requirements. We forecast the needs of all of our subsidiaries and periodically review their short-term and long-term projected sources and uses of funds, as well as the asset, liability, investment and cash flow assumptions underlying such forecasts. Our insurance subsidiaries generate cash from premiums earned and their respective investment portfolios and these funds are adequate to satisfy the payments of claims and other liabilities. Due to the magnitude of our investment portfolio in relation to our claims loss reserves, we do not specifically match durations of our investments to the cash outflows required to pay claims, but do manage outflows on a shorter time frame. Our two significant sources of internally generated funds are dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries. As a holding company, we receive cash from our subsidiaries in the form of dividends and as reimbursement for operating and other administrative expenses we incur. The reimbursements are paid within the guidelines of management agreements among us and our subsidiaries. Our insurance subsidiaries are restricted by state regulation in their ability to pay dividends and make distributions. Each state of domicile regulates the extent to which our title underwriters can pay dividends or make distributions. As of December 31, 2015 , $2,049 million of our net assets were restricted from dividend payments without prior approval from the relevant departments of insurance. During 2016 , our title insurance subsidiaries can pay or make distributions to us of approximately $334 million. Our underwritten title companies and non-ti tle insurance subsidiaries collect revenue and pay operating expenses. However, they are not regulated to the same extent as our insurance subsidiaries. The maximum dividend permitted by law is not necessarily indicative of an insurer actual ability to pay dividends, which may be constrained by business and regulatory considerations, such as the impact of dividends on surplus, which could affect an insurer ratings or competitive position, the amount of premiums that can be written and the ability to pay future dividends. Further, depending on business and regulatory conditions, we may in the future need to retain cash in our underwriters or even contribute cash to one or more of them in order to maintain their ratings or their statutory capital position. Such a requirement could be the result of investment losses, reserve charges, adverse operating conditions in the current economic environment or changes in interpretation of statutory accounting requirements by regulators. On June 30, 2014, we completed the creation of a tracking stock for our portfolio company investments, now known as FNFV. The primary FNFV investments included our equity interests in Remy, ABRH, J. Alexander's, Ceridian, and Digital Insurance. We provided $200 million in financial support to FNFV comprised of $100 million in cash and $100 million in a line of credit, upon formation of the tracking stock. The $100 million in cash and the $100 million line of credit will be used for investment purposes, repurchasing FNFV stock or other general corporate purposes. From time to time, we may also provide additional loans to FNFV to cover corporate expenses and working capital. All additional investments in existing FNFV owned companies and any new FNFV company investments will be funded and managed by FNFV. Cash flow from FNF's core operations is expected to be used for general corporate purposes including to reinvest in core operations, repay debt, pay dividends, repurchase stock, other strategic initiatives or conserving cash. We are focused on evaluating our FNFV assets and investments as potential vehicles for creating liquidity. Our intent is to use that liquidity for general corporate purposes, including payment of dividends as declared by the Board of Directors and potentially reducing debt, repurchasing shares of our stock, other strategic initiatives and/or conserving cash. 55 Table of Contents Our cash flows provided by operations for the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 were $917 million , $567 million and $484 million , respectively. The increase in cash provided by operations of $350 million from 2015 to 2014 is primarily due to increased earnings from operations before equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates of $497 million and lower claims payments of $17 million, offset by increased payments for income taxes in 2015 compared to 2014 of $175 million. The change in 2015 from 2014 is also driven by $39 million of operating cash flows for Remy included in the 2014 period. The remaining change from the 2014 period to the 2015 period is primarily attributable to timing of receivables and payables. The increase in cash provided by operations of $83 million from 2014 to 2013 is primarily due to increased earnings from operations, lower claims payments of $98 million, and a tax refund of $62 million on LPS acquisition costs. These increases were offset by payments of $54 million in transaction costs and $47 million in severance payments both relating to the acquisition of LPS and bonus payments of $124 million relating to our Long Term Incentive Plan, Investment Success Incentive Program, and synergy plans associated with the LPS acquisition. Capital Expenditures. Total capital expenditures for property and equipment and capitalized software were $241 million , $210 million and $145 million for the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , respectively. The 2015 period consists of capital expenditures of $92 million in our Title segment, $87 million in our Black Knight segment, $55 million in Restaurant Group segment, and $7 million in other FNFV Group expenditures. The increase in the 2015 period from the 2014 period is primarily due to increased investments in property and equipment in our Title segment and increased expenditures on property and equipment and software at Black Knight. The increase in the 2014 period from the 2013 period is primarily due to increased expenditures on property and equipment and capitalized software at Black Knight and continued remodeling efforts in our Restaurant Group. Financing. For a description of our financing arrangements see Note J to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Report, which is incorporated by reference into this Part II, Item 7. Seasonality. H istorically, real estate transactions have produced seasonal revenue levels for the real estate industry including title insurers. The first calendar quarter is typically the weakest quarter in terms of revenue due to the generally low volume of home sales during January and February. The third calendar quarter has been typically the strongest in terms of revenue primarily due to a higher volume of home sales in the summer months and the fourth quarter is usually also strong due to commercial entities desiring to complete transactions by year-end. We have noted short term fluctuations through recent years in resale and refinance transactions as a result of changes in interest rates and the implementation and subsequent expiration of government programs designed to stimulate the real estate market. In 2014 and 2013, we saw seasonality trends return to historical patterns. During 2015, we experienced a moderate increase in existing home sales and we have also seen a decline in total housing inventory. However, we have experienced significant declines in refinance activity starting in the fourth quarter of 2013. In our Restaurant Group, average weekly sales per restaurant are typically higher in the first and fourth quarters, and we typically generate a disproportionate share of our earnings from operations in the first and fourth quarters. Holidays, severe weather and other disruptive conditions may impact sales volumes seasonally in some operating regions. Contractual Obligations. Our long term contractual obligations generally include our loss reserves, our credit agreements and other debt facilities, operating lease payments on certain of our premises and equipment and purchase obligations of the Restaurant Group. As of December 31, 2015 , our required annual payments relating to these contractual obligations were as follows: 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Thereafter Total (In millions) Notes payable $ 53 $ 372 $ 395 $ 179 $ 704 $ 1,118 $ 2,821 Operating lease payments 272 176 145 115 83 251 1,042 Pension and other benefit payments 18 17 16 15 15 106 187 Title claim losses 260 224 183 147 102 667 1,583 Unconditional purchase obligations 182 31 21 14 6 254 Other 78 64 53 45 45 139 424 Total $ 863 $ 884 $ 813 $ 515 $ 955 $ 2,281 $ 6,311 56 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2015 , we had title insurance reserves of $1,583 million. The amounts and timing of these obligations are estimated and are not set contractually. While we believe that historical loss payments are a reasonable source for projecting future claim payments, there is significant inherent uncertainty in this payment pattern estimate because of the potential impact of changes in: future mortgage interest rates, which will affect the number of real estate and refinancing transactions and, therefore, the rate at which title insurance claims will emerge; the legal environment whereby court decisions and reinterpretations of title insurance policy language to broaden coverage could increase total obligations and influence claim payout patterns; events such as fraud, escrow theft, multiple property title defects, foreclosure rates and individual large loss events that can substantially and unexpectedly cause increases in both the amount and timing of estimated title insurance loss payments; and loss cost trends whereby increases or decreases in inflationary factors (including the value of real estate) will influence the ultimate amount of title insurance loss payments. Based on historical title insurance claim experience, we anticipate the above payment patterns. The uncertainty and variation in the timing and amount of claim payments could have a material impact on our cash flows from operations in a particular period. The Restaurant Group has unconditional purchase obligations with various vendors. These purchase obligations are primarily food and beverage obligations with fixed commitments in regards to the time period of the contract and the quantities purchased with annual price adjustments that can fluctuate. We used both historical and projected volume and pricing as of December 31, 2015 to determine the amount of the obligations. Black Knight has data processing and maintenance commitments with various vendors. We used current outstanding contracts with the vendors to determine the amount of the obligations. We sponsor multiple pension plans and other post-retirement benefit plans. See Note O of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this report for further information. Other contractual obligations include estimated future interest payments on our outstanding fixed rate debt and investment commitments entered into in 2015 for $50 million. Capital Stock Transactions. On September 16, 2015, J. Alexander's and FNF entered into a Separation and Distribution Agreement, pursuant to which FNF agreed to distribute one hundred percent ( 100% ) of its shares of J. Alexander's common stock, on a pro rata basis, to the holders of FNFV common stock. Holders of FNFV common stock received, as a distribution from FNF, approximately 0.17272 shares of J. Alexander common stock for every one share of FNFV common stock held at the close of business on September 22, 2015, the record date for the distribution (the Distribution ). The Distribution was made on September 28, 2015. As a result of the Distribution, J. Alexander's is now an independent public company and its common stock is listed under the symbol JAX on the New York Stock Exchange. The Distribution was generally tax-free to FNFV shareholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes, except to the extent of any cash received in lieu of J. Alexander's fractional shares. On May 26, 2015, Black Knight closed its initial public offering ("IPO") of 20,700,000 shares of Class A common stock at a price to the public of $24.50 per share, which included 2,700,000 shares of Class A common stock issued upon the exercise in full of the underwriters' option to purchase additional shares. Black Knight received net proceeds of $475 million from the offering, after deduction of underwriter discount and expenses. In connection with the IPO, Black Knight amended and restated its certificate of incorporation to authorize the issuance of two classes of common stock, Class A common stock and Class B common stock, which will generally vote together as a single class on all matters submitted for a vote to stockholders. As a result, Black Knight issued shares of Class B common stock to us, and certain Thomas H. Lee Partners affiliates, as the holders of membership interests in Black Knight Financial Services, LLC ("BKFS, LLC") prior to the IPO. Class B common stock is not publicly traded and does not entitle the holders thereof to any of the economic rights, including rights to dividends and distributions upon liquidation that would be provided to holders of Class A common stock. Prior to the IPO, we owned 67% of the membership interests in BKFS, LLC. Following the IPO, we owned 55% of the outstanding shares of Black Knight in the form of Class B common stock, with a corresponding ownership interest in BKFS, LLC. On March 20, 2015, we completed our tender offer to purchase shares of FNFV stock. As a result of the offer, we accepted for purchase 12,333,333 shares of FNFV Group Common Stock for a purchase price of $15.00 per common share, for a total aggregate cost of $185 million , excluding fees and expenses related to the tender offer. On October 28, 2014, our Board of Directors approved a three-year stock purchase program, effective November 6, 2014, under which we can repurchase up to 10 million shares of our FNFV Group common stock through November 30, 2017. We may make repurchases from time to time in the open market, in block purchases or in privately negotiated transactions, depending on market conditions and other factors. In the year ended December 31, 2015 , we repurchased a total of 8,187,382 shares for $106 million , or an average of $12.95 per share under this program. Subsequent to year-end we repurchased a total of 1,143,900 shares 57 Table of Contents for $11 million , or an average of $9.71 per share, under this program through market close on February 19, 2016 . Since the original commencement of the plan adopted November 6, 2014, we have repurchased a total of 9,447,382 shares for $119 million , or an average of $12.57 per share, and there are 552,618 shares available to be repurchased under this program through market close on February 19, 2016 . On February 18, 2016, our Board of Directors approved a new FNFV Group three-year stock repurchase program, effective March 1, 2016, under which we may repurchase up to 15 million shares of FNFV Group common stock. Purchases may be made from time to time by us in the open market at prevailing market prices or in privately negotiated transactions through February 28, 2019. On June 30, 2014, we completed the recapitalization of Old FNF common stock into two tracking stocks, FNF Group common stock and FNFV Group common stock. We issued 277,462,875 shares of FNF Group common stock and 91,711,237 shares of FNFV Group common stock. See Note A for further discussion on the recapitalization of FNF common stock. On January 2, 2014, we completed the purchase of LPS. As part of the consideration, $839 million or 25,920,078 shares of Old FNF common stock was issued to LPS shareholders. See Note B of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the acquisition of LPS. On July 21, 2012, our Board of Directors approved a three-year stock repurchase program, effective August 1, 2012, under which we can repurchase up to 15 million shares of our common stock through July 31, 2015. On July 20, 2015, our Board of Directors approved a new three-year stock repurchase program under which we can purchase up to 25 million shares through July 30, 2018. We may make repurchases from time to time in the open market, in block purchases or in privately negotiated transactions, depending on market conditions and other factors. In the year ended December 31, 2015 , we repurchased a total 5,875,000 FNF Group shares under these programs for $214 million , or an average price of $36.41 per share. Subsequent to year-end we repurchased a total of 500,000 shares for $17 million , or an average of $33.19 per share under this program through market close on February 19, 2016 . Since the original commencement of the plan adopted July 21, 2012, we have repurchased a total of 3,380,000 FNF common shares for $ 98 million , or an average of $ 28.97 per share, and there are no shares available to be repurchased under this program. Since the original commencement of the plan adopted July 20, 2015, we have repurchased a total of 5,075,000 FNF Group common shares for $182 million , or an average of $35.92 per share, and there are 19,925,000 shares available to be repurchased under this program. Equity Security and Preferred Stock Investments. Our equity security and preferred stock investments may be subject to significant volatility. Should the fair value of these investments fall below our cost basis and/or the financial condition or prospects of these companies deteriorate, we may determine in a future period that this decline in fair value is other-than-temporary, requiring that an impairment loss be recognized in the period such a determination is made. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. We do not engage in off-balance sheet activities other than facility and equipment leasing arrangements. On June 29, 2004 we entered into an off-balance sheet financing arrangement (commonly referred to as a synthetic lease ). The owner/lessor in this arrangement acquired land and various real property improvements associated with new construction of an office building in Jacksonville, Florida, at our corporate campus and headquarters. The lessor financed the acquisition of the facilities through funding provided by third-party financial institutions. On June 27, 2011, we renewed and amended the synthetic lease for the facilities. The amended synthetic lease provides for a five year term ending June 27, 2016 and had an outstanding balance as of December 31, 2015 of $71 million. The amended lease includes guarantees by us of up to 83.0% of the outstanding lease balance, and options to purchase the facilities at the outstanding lease balance. The guarantee becomes effective if we decline to purchase the facilities at the end of the lease and also decline to renew the lease. We are currently in the process of exploring our options for purchasing the facilities or renewing the lease, but have not finalized our plans. The lessor is a third-party company and we have no affiliation or relationship with the lessor or any of its employees, directors or affiliates, and transactions with the lessor are limited to the operating lease agreements and the associated rent expense that have been included in other operating expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. We do not believe the lessor is a variable interest entity, as defined in the FASB standard on consolidation of variable interest entities. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For a description of recent accounting pronouncements, see Note S of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this report. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk In the normal course of business, we are routinely subject to a variety of risks, as described in Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. For example, we are exposed to the risk that decreased real estate activity, which depends in part on the level of interest rates, may reduce our Core revenues. The risks related to our business also include certain market risks that may affect our debt and other financial instruments. At present, we face the market risks associated with our marketable equity securities subject to equity price volatility and with interest rate movements on our outstanding debt and fixed income investments. 58 Table of Contents We regularly assess these market risks and have established policies and business practices designed to protect against the adverse effects of these exposures. At December 31, 2015 , we had $2,793 million in long-term debt, of which $ 1,403 million bears interest at a floating rate. Our fixed maturity investments, certain preferred stocks and our floating rate debt are subject to an element of market risk from changes in interest rates. Increases and decreases in prevailing interest rates generally translate into decreases and increases in fair values of those instruments. Additionally, fair values of interest rate sensitive instruments may be affected by the creditworthiness of the issuer, prepayment options, relative values of alternative investments, the liquidity of the instrument and other general market conditions. We manage interest rate risk through a variety of measures. We monitor our interest rate risk and make investment decisions to manage the perceived risk. As of December 31, 2015 we did not use derivative financial instruments to hedge these risks. Equity price risk is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse changes in equity prices. In the past, our exposure to changes in equity prices primarily resulted from our holdings of equity securities. At December 31, 2015 , we held $ 345 million in marketable equity securities (not including our investments in preferred stock of $ 289 million at December 31, 2015 and our Investments in unconsolidated affiliates, which amounted to $ 521 million at December 31, 2015 ). The carrying values of investments subject to equity price risks are based on quoted market prices as of the balance sheet date. Market prices are subject to fluctuation and, consequently, the amount realized in the subsequent sale of an investment may significantly differ from the reported market value. Fluctuation in the market price of a security may result from perceived changes in the underlying economic characteristics of the investee, the relative price of alternative investments and general market conditions. Furthermore, amounts realized in the sale of a particular security may be affected by the relative quantity of the security being sold. Financial instruments, which potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk, consist primarily of accounts receivable and cash investments. We require placement of cash in financial institutions evaluated as highly creditworthy. For purposes of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we perform a sensitivity analysis to determine the effects that market risk exposures may have on the fair values of our debt and other financial instruments. The financial instruments that are included in the sensitivity analysis with respect to interest rate risk include fixed maturity investments, preferred stock and notes payable. The financial instruments that are included in the sensitivity analysis with respect to equity price risk include marketable equity securities. With the exception of our equity method investments, it is not anticipated that there would be a significant change in the fair value of other long-term investments or short-term investments if there were a change in market conditions, based on the nature and duration of the financial instruments involved. To perform the sensitivity analysis, we assess the risk of loss in fair values from the effect of hypothetical changes in interest rates and equity prices on market-sensitive instruments. The changes in fair values for interest rate risks are determined by estimating the present value of future cash flows using various models, primarily duration modeling. The changes in fair values for equity price risk are determined by comparing the market price of investments against their reported values as of the balance sheet date. Information provided by the sensitivity analysis does not necessarily represent the actual changes in fair value that we would incur under normal market conditions because, due to practical limitations, all variables other than the specific market risk factor are held constant. For example, our reserve for title claim losses (representing 22.6% of total liabilities at December 31, 2015 ) is not included in the hypothetical effects. We have no market risk sensitive instruments entered into for trading purposes; therefore, all of our market risk sensitive instruments were entered into for purposes other than trading. The results of the sensitivity analysis at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 , are as follows: Interest Rate Risk At December 31, 2015 , an increase (decrease) in the levels of interest rates of 100 basis points, with all other variables held constant, would result in a (decrease) increase in the fair value of our fixed maturity securities and certain of our investments in preferred stock which are tied to interest rates of $ 72 million as compared with a (decrease) increase of $ 82 million at December 31, 2014 . For the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, a decrease of 100 basis points in the levels of interest rates, with all other variables held constant, would result in a decrease in the interest expense on our average outstanding floating rate debt of $6 million, as the current LIBOR rate is less than 1%. An increase of 100 basis points in the levels of interest rates, with all other variables held constant, would result in an increase in the interest expense on our average outstanding floating rate debt of $14 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 . See Note J of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this report for further details of our notes payable. 59 Table of Contents Equity Price Risk At December 31, 2015 , a 20% increase (decrease) in market prices, with all other variables held constant, would result in an increase (decrease) in the fair value of our equity securities portfolio of $ 69 million, as compared with an increase (decrease) of $ 29 million at December 31, 2014 . 60 Table of Contents 
