CIK: 1384101
Company Name: VERACYTE INC 
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2023-03-01
Accession Number: 0001384101-23-000016


ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read together with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes included in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion and analysis contains certain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those discussed below. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified below and those set forth under the section entitled "Risk Factors" in Item 1A, and other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Historical results are not necessarily indicative of future results. Overview We are a global diagnostics company that empowers clinicians with the high-value insights they need to guide and assure patients at pivotal moments in the race to diagnose and treat cancer. Our high-performing tests enable clinicians to make more confident diagnostic, prognostic and treatment decisions, helping patients avoid unnecessary procedures and interventions, and speed time to appropriate treatment, thereby improving outcomes for patients all over the world. We currently offer tests in thyroid cancer (Afirma); prostate cancer (Decipher Prostate); breast cancer (Prosigna); interstitial lung diseases (Envisia); and bladder cancer (Decipher Bladder). Our Percepta Nasal Swab test is being run in our CLIA lab in support of clinical studies and our tests for kidney cancer and lymphoma are in development, the latter as a companion diagnostic. We serve global markets with two complementary models. In the United States, we offer LDTs through our centralized CLIA certified laboratories in South San Francisco and San Diego, California, supported by our cytopathology expertise in Austin, Texas. Additionally, primarily outside of the United States, we provide tests to patients through distribution to laboratories and hospitals that can perform the tests locally. Today, this includes our Prosigna test, and in the future, we intend to offer the Envisia, Decipher Prostate and Percepta Nasal Swab tests as in IVD tests that run on the nCounter Analysis System. We believe our broad menu of advanced diagnostic tests, combined with our ability to deliver them globally, uniquely positions us in the diagnostics industry. In March 2021, we acquired Decipher Biosciences, expanding our genomic testing menu into urologic cancers. The acquisition also provided us with Decipher GRID (Genomics Resource for Intelligent Discovery), a platform and database that helps drive biopharmaceutical partnerships, KOL engagement and pipeline development in urologic cancers. In August 2021, we acquired HalioDx SAS and HalioDx Inc., historically a wholly owned subsidiary of HalioDx SAS, (collectively referred to as HalioDx ), giving us the capabilities and expertise to manufacture our own IVD test kits for use on the nCounter Analysis System. The acquisition also deepened our scientific expertise and capabilities in the rapidly growing area of immuno-oncology further strengthening our offerings to biopharmaceutical and other partners. COVID-19 and Macroeconomic Factors We believe the COVID-19 outbreak, including its numerous variants, impacted our total test volumes primarily during 2020 and 2021. Our customers, third-party contract manufacturers, carriers, suppliers and collaboration partners have been affected by the closure of hospitals, doctors' offices, manufacturing sites, or country borders, among other measures put in place around the world. Layoffs, furloughs and unplanned loss of staff in the medical industry and otherwise during the pandemic have had, and will continue to have, negative impacts on the demand for and supply of medical care and diagnostic tests, which affects the frequency with which tests are ordered, and the ability of doctors and hospitals to administer such tests. Further the inability to travel and conduct face-to-face meetings can also make it more difficult to expand utilization of our products into new geographies and to drive awareness of our products. Our Decipher Prostate test has been least impacted by the pandemic because our customers are mostly community-based urology practices, which generally remained more accessible to patients and our sales reps. Our Afirma thyroid cancer test was impacted by COVID-19 in 2020 and portions of 2021 as a majority of our samples come from large institutions which are less accessible to patients and our reps. We believe our pulmonology businesses were the most impacted since the bronchoscopy procedures used to collect samples for our Envisia test are considered elective procedures and are performed in hospital settings, which have been more restrictive. Further these tests are ordered by pulmonologists who could be largely preoccupied with caring for COVID-19 patients. 64 Table of Contents In addition, ongoing interest rate increases and inflation in the U.S. and other markets globally may heighten the risk of an economic downturn or recession and volatility and dislocation in the capital or credit markets in the U.S. or globally. Moreover, the continued strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to other currencies (including the Euro, in which a material portion of our European sales and costs are denominated), has impacted and may continue to impact our results of operations. We intend to continue to monitor macroeconomic conditions closely and may determine to take certain financial or operational actions in response to such conditions as appropriate. Finally, the measures taken by Russia in response to European support for Ukraine have increased the risk of disruptions to energy supplies in Europe, which may impact our ability to manufacture tests from our facility in Marseille, France. The extent of the impact of COVID-19 and other macroeconomic factors on our future liquidity and operational performance will depend on certain developments, including the deployment and long-term efficacy of vaccines; the duration and spread of the outbreak particularly in the form of more transmissible variants; the impact on our customers' operations; the impact to our sales and renewal cycles; changes in central bank policies and interest rates; rates of inflation; and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. See Risk Factors for further discussion. Factors Affecting Our Performance Reported Total Test Volume Our performance depends on the number of tests that we perform and report as completed in our CLIA-certified laboratories and Prosigna tests processed on the nCounter Analysis System. Factors impacting the number of tests that we report as completed include, but are not limited to: the impact of COVID-19 on patients seeking to have tests performed; the availability of hospital staff to perform and support procedures needed to collect samples for our tests; the number of samples that we receive that meet the medical indication for each test performed; the quantity and quality of the sample received; receipt of the necessary documentation, such as physician order and patient consent, required to perform, bill and collect for our tests; the patient's ability to pay or provide necessary insurance coverage for the tests performed; the time it takes us to perform our tests and report the results; the seasonality inherent in our business, such as the impact of work days per period, timing of industry conferences and the timing of when patient deductibles are exceeded, which also impacts the reimbursement we receive from insurers; and our ability to obtain prior authorization or meet other requirements instituted by payers, benefit managers, or regulators necessary to be paid for our tests. Continued Adoption of and Reimbursement for our Products Revenue growth depends on our ability to secure coverage decisions, achieve broader reimbursement at increased levels from third-party payers, expand our base of prescribing physicians and increase our penetration in existing accounts. Because some payers consider our products experimental and investigational, we may not receive payment for tests and payments we receive may not be at acceptable levels. We expect our revenue growth to increase if more payers make a positive coverage decision and as payers enter into contracts with us, which should enhance our revenue and cash collections. Our sales teams are aligned under our general manager-based structure to focus on specific products and global markets. If we are unable to expand the base of prescribing physicians and penetration within these accounts at an acceptable rate, or if we are not able to execute our strategy for increasing reimbursement and associated collections, we may not be able to effectively increase our revenue. We expect to continue to see pressure from payers to limit the utilization of tests, generally, and we believe more payers are deploying cost containment tactics, such as pre-authorization, reduction of the payer portion of reimbursement and employing laboratory benefit managers to reduce utilization rates. How We Recognize Revenue We recognize revenue in accordance with the provisions of ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers , or ASC 606. This process involves identifying the contract with a customer, determining the performance obligations in the contract, 65 Table of Contents determining the contract price, allocating the contract price to the distinct performance obligations in the contract, and recognizing revenue when the performance obligations have been satisfied. Testing Revenue We bill for testing services at the time of test completion as defined by the delivery of test results. We recognize revenue based on estimates of the amount that will ultimately be realized. In determining the amount to accrue for a delivered test, we consider factors such as payment history, payer coverage, whether there is a reimbursement contract between the payer and us, payment as a percentage of agreed upon rate (if applicable), amount paid per test and any current developments or changes that could impact reimbursement. These estimates require significant judgment by management. Actual results could differ from those estimates and assumptions. Generally, cash we receive is collected within 12 months of the date the test is billed. We cannot provide any assurance as to when, if ever, or to what extent any of these amounts will be collected. Notwithstanding our efforts to obtain payment for these tests, payers may deny our claims, in whole or in part, and we may never receive payment for these tests. We bill list price regardless of contract rate, but only recognize revenue from amounts that we estimate are collectible and meet our revenue recognition criteria. Revenue may not be equal to the billed amount due to a number of factors that we consider when determining revenue accrual rates, including differences in reimbursement rates, the amounts of patient co-payments and co-insurance, the existence of secondary payers, claims denials and the amount we expect to ultimately collect. Finally, when we increase our list price, it will increase the cumulative amounts billed but may not positively impact accrued revenue. In addition, payer contracts generally include the right of offset and payers may offset payments prior to resolving disputes over tests performed. Generally, we determine accrual rates by calculating an average of reimbursement from all payers for tests performed over a four-quarter period as it reduces the effects of temporary volatility and seasonality. The periods selected to determine accrual rates typically are at least six months old because it takes a significant period of time to collect from some payers. We may also determine accrual rates based on other factors such as coverage decisions, contracts, or more recent reimbursement data as appropriate. The average test reimbursement rates will change over time due to a number of factors, including medical coverage decisions by payers, the effects of contracts signed with payers, changes in allowed amounts by payers, our ability to successfully win appeals for payment, and our ability to collect cash payments from third-party payers and individual patients. Historical average reimbursement is not necessarily indicative of future average reimbursement. We incur expense for tests in the period in which the test is conducted and recognize revenue for tests in the period in which our revenue recognition criteria are met. Product Revenue Our products consist of the Prosigna breast cancer assay, the nCounter Analysis System and related diagnostic kits. We recognize product revenue when control of the promised goods is transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration expected to be received in exchange for those products. This process involves identifying the contract with a customer, determining the performance obligations in the contract, determining the contract price, allocating the contract price to the distinct performance obligations in the contract, and recognizing revenue when the performance obligations have been satisfied. A performance obligation is considered distinct from other obligations in a contract when it provides a benefit to the customer either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available to the customer and is separately identified in the contract. Performance obligations are considered satisfied once we have transferred control of a product to the customer, meaning the customer has the ability to use and obtain the benefit of the product. We recognize product revenue for satisfied performance obligations only when there are no uncertainties regarding payment terms or transfer of control. Shipping and handling costs incurred for product shipments are charged to our customers and included in product revenue. Revenue is presented net of the taxes that are collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities. 66 Table of Contents Biopharmaceutical and Other Revenue We enter into arrangements to license or provide access to our assets or services, including testing services, clinical services, research and development, contract manufacturing and development, as well as other services. Such arrangements may require us to deliver various rights, data, services, manufactured diagnostic test kits, access and/or testing services to partner biopharmaceutical companies. One such arrangement is a collaborative arrangement that falls under the scope of ASC Topic 808, Collaborative Arrangements, or ASC 808. The underlying terms of these arrangements generally provide for consideration paid to us in the form of nonrefundable fees; payments on delivery of data, test results or manufactured products; costs of service plus margin; performance milestone payments; expense reimbursements and possibly royalty and/or other payments. Net sales of data or other services to our customers are recognized in accordance with ASC 606 and are classified under biopharmaceutical and other revenue. Milestone payments which fall under the scope of ASC 808, are recognized in the same manner as milestone payments from customers and are considered to be collaboration revenue. Payments received that are not related to sales or services to a customer or collaboration revenue are recorded as offsets against research and development expense or cost of biopharmaceutical and other revenue in our consolidated statements of operations. In arrangements involving more than one good or service delivered to a customer, each good or service is evaluated to determine whether it qualifies as a distinct performance obligation based on whether (i) the customer can benefit from the good or service either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available and (ii) the good or service is separately identifiable from other promises in the contract. The consideration under the arrangement is then allocated to each separate distinct performance obligation based on its respective relative stand-alone selling price. The estimated selling price of each deliverable reflects our best estimate of what the selling price would be if the deliverable was regularly sold by us on a stand-alone basis or using an adjusted market assessment approach if the selling price on a stand-alone basis is not available. The consideration allocated to each distinct performance obligation is recognized as revenue when control is transferred which may be at a point in time or over time. Consideration associated with at-risk substantive performance milestones is recognized as revenue when it is probable that a significant reversal of the cumulative revenue recognized will not occur. Should there be royalties, we utilize the sales and usage-based royalty exception in arrangements that resulted from the license of intellectual property, recognizing revenue generated from royalties or profit sharing as the underlying sales occur. Timing of Our Research and Development Expenses We deploy state-of-the-art and costly genomic technologies in our biomarker discovery experiments, and our spending on these technologies may vary substantially from quarter to quarter. We also spend a significant amount on activities to secure clinical trial results in support of our testing and product development portfolio and on-market tests, as well as clinical validation and utilization studies. The timing of these research and development activities is difficult to predict, as is the timing of clinical trial enrollments and sample acquisitions. If a substantial number of clinical samples are acquired in a given quarter or if a high-cost experiment is conducted in one quarter versus the next, the timing of these expenses can affect our financial results. We conduct clinical studies to validate our new products, as well as on-going clinical studies to further the published evidence to support our commercialized tests. As these studies are initiated, start-up costs for each site can be significant and concentrated in a specific quarter. Spending on research and development, for both experiments and studies, may vary significantly by quarter depending on the timing of these various expenses. Financial Overview Revenue Through December 31, 2022, we had derived most of our revenue from the sale of Decipher and Afirma tests, delivered primarily to physicians in the United States. We generally invoice third-party payers upon delivery of a patient report to the prescribing physician. As such, we take the assignment of benefits and the risk of cash collection from the third-party payer and 67 Table of Contents individual patients. Third-party payers and other customers in excess of 10% of total revenue and their related revenue as a percentage of total revenue were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 2020 Medicare 31 % 30 % 24 % UnitedHealthcare 10 % 10 % 11 % 41 % 40 % 35 % For tests performed, we recognize the related revenue upon delivery of a patient report to the prescribing physician based on the amount that we expect to ultimately receive. In determining the amount to accrue for a delivered test, we consider factors such as payment history, payer coverage, whether there is a reimbursement contract between the payer and us, payment as a percentage of agreed upon reimbursement rate (if applicable), amount paid per test and any current development or changes that could impact reimbursement. Upon ultimate collection, the amount received is compared to previous estimates and the amount accrued is adjusted accordingly. Our ability to increase our revenue will depend on our ability to penetrate the market, obtain positive coverage policies from additional third-party payers, obtain reimbursement and/or enter into contracts with additional third-party payers for our current and new tests, and increase reimbursement rates for tests performed. Finally, should the judgments underlying our estimated reimbursement change, our accrued revenue and financial results could be negatively impacted in future periods. Cost of Testing Revenue The components of our cost of testing revenue are laboratory expenses, sample collection kit costs, sample collection expenses, compensation expense, license fees and royalties, depreciation, other expenses such as equipment and laboratory supplies, and allocations of facility and information technology expenses. Costs associated with performing tests are recorded as the test is processed regardless of whether and when revenue is recognized with respect to that test. As a result, our cost of testing revenue as a percentage of testing revenue may vary significantly from period to period because we may not recognize all revenue in the period in which the associated costs are incurred. We expect cost of testing revenue in absolute dollars to increase as the number of tests we perform increases. However, we expect that the cost per test will decrease over time due to leveraging fixed costs, efficiencies we may gain as test volume increases and from automation, process efficiencies and other cost reductions. As we introduce new tests, initially our cost of testing revenue will be high as we expect to run suboptimal batch sizes, run quality control batches, test batches, registry samples, and generally incur costs that may suppress or reduce gross margins. This will disproportionately increase our aggregate cost of testing revenue until we achieve efficiencies in processing these new tests. Cost of Product Revenue Our cost of product revenue consists primarily of costs of purchasing instruments and diagnostic kits from third-party contract manufacturers, installation, warranty, service and packaging and delivery costs. In addition, cost of product revenue includes royalty costs for licensed technologies included in our products and labor expenses. As our Prosigna test kits are sold in various configurations with different number of tests, our product cost per test will vary based on the specific kit configuration purchased by customers. Cost of Biopharmaceutical and Other Revenue Our cost of biopharmaceutical and other revenue are the costs of performing activities under arrangements that require us to perform research and development, commercialization, contract manufacturing and development, and contract testing services on behalf of a customer. This cost is mainly composed of compensation expense, laboratory supplies and pass-through costs. Research and Development Research and development expenses include expenses incurred to develop our technology, collect clinical samples and conduct clinical studies to develop and support our products and pipeline. These expenses consist of compensation expenses, direct research and development expenses such as laboratory supplies and costs associated with setting up and conducting 68 Table of Contents clinical studies at domestic and international sites, professional fees, depreciation and amortization, other miscellaneous expenses and allocation of facility and information technology expenses. We expense all research and development costs in the periods in which they are incurred. We incurred a majority of our research and development expenses in years ended December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021 in support of our early-stage products, including Percepta Nasal Swab. Going forward, we expect to incur significant expense as we invest in the development of our innovation engine, early-stage products, including required clinical studies, the development of current tests for the nCounter instrument and the transition of manufacturing to our Veracyte SAS facility. Selling and Marketing Selling and marketing expenses consist of compensation expenses, direct marketing expenses, professional fees, other expenses such as travel and communications costs, as well as allocation of facility and information technology expenses. Our sales team of approximately 120 representatives is organized by business unit, with separate teams calling on thyroid cancer, urologic cancers, and pulmonology physicians. The business units have dedicated marketing support, as well as a marketing operations team that serves the commercial organization broadly. Prosigna sales outside of the U.S. are led by country managers that call on laboratories and breast cancer oncologists and have dedicated marketing support. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses include compensation expenses for executive officers and administrative, billing and client service personnel, professional fees for legal and audit services, occupancy costs, depreciation and amortization, and other expenses such as information technology and miscellaneous expenses offset by allocation of facility and information technology expenses to other functions. General and administrative expenses include costs related to the acquisitions of Decipher Biosciences and HalioDx, which were included in general and administrative compensation expense and professional fees. We expect general and administrative expenses to continue to increase as we build our infrastructure to scale revenue growth, and to stabilize thereafter. Intangible Asset Amortization Our finite-lived intangible assets, acquired in business combinations, are being amortized over 4 to 15 years, using the straight-line method. Amortization expense is expected to be approximately $21.3 million per year through 2024 and decrease thereafter. Interest Expense Interest expense is attributable to our borrowings under debt agreements and costs associated with the prepayment of debt. Other Income, Net Other income, net consists primarily of realized and unrealized gains and losses on foreign currency transactions, French research tax credits, interest expense on our debt and interest income from our cash held in interest bearing accounts. The French research tax credits (cr dit d imp t recherche or CIR) are generated by our wholly owned subsidiary, Veracyte SAS, in connection with its research efforts performed in Marseille, France. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our management's discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our audited consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP. The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements, as well as the reported revenue generated and expenses incurred during the reporting periods. Our estimates are based on our historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions and any such differences may be material. We believe that the accounting policies discussed below are critical to 69 Table of Contents understanding our historical and future performance, as these policies relate to the more significant areas involving management's judgments and estimates. Testing Revenue We bill for testing services at the time of test completion as defined by the delivery of test results. We recognize revenue on an accrual basis based on estimates of the amount that will ultimately be realized. In determining the amount to accrue for a delivered test, we consider factors such as payment history, payer coverage, whether there is a reimbursement contract between the payer and us, payment as a percentage of the agreed upon rate (if applicable), amount paid per test and any current developments or changes that could impact reimbursement. These estimates require significant judgment by management. Generally, we determine accrual rates by calculating an average of reimbursement from all payers for tests performed over a four-quarter period as it reduces the effects of temporary volatility and seasonality. The periods selected to determine accrual rates tend to be at least six months old because it takes a significant period of time to collect from some payers. We may also determine accrual rates based on other factors such as coverage decisions, contracts, or more recent reimbursement data as appropriate. We use judgment in determining accrual rates and our judgments will continue to evolve in the future as we continue to gain reimbursement experience. Product Revenue Our products consist of the Prosigna breast cancer assay, the nCounter Analysis System and related diagnostic kits. We recognize product revenue when control of the promised goods is transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration expected to be received in exchange for those products. Shipping and handling costs incurred for product shipments are charged to our customers and included in product revenue. Revenues are presented net of the taxes that are collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities. Biopharmaceutical and Other Revenues For biopharmaceutical and other revenue, we develop estimates and assumptions that require judgment to determine the underlying stand-alone selling price for each performance obligation which determines how the transaction price is allocated among the performance obligations. The estimation of the stand-alone selling price may include independent evidence of market price, forecasted revenues or costs, development timelines, discount rates, and probabilities of technical and regulatory success. We evaluate each performance obligation to determine if they can be satisfied at a point in time or over time, and we measure the services delivered to the collaborative partner which are periodically reviewed based on the progress of the related program. For licenses that are bundled with other promises, we utilize judgment to assess the nature of the combined performance obligation to determine whether the combined performance obligation is satisfied over time or at a point in time. The effect of any change made to an estimated input component and, therefore revenue or expense recognized, would be recorded as a change in estimate. In addition, variable consideration must be evaluated to determine if it is constrained and, therefore, excluded from the transaction price. At the inception of each arrangement that includes milestone payments (variable consideration), we evaluate whether the milestones are considered probable of being reached and estimates the amount to be included in the transaction price. Milestone payments that are not within either party control, such as non-operational developmental and regulatory approvals, are generally not considered probable of being achieved until those approvals are received. At the end of each reporting period, we re-evaluate the probability of achievement of milestones that are within either party control, such as operational developmental milestones and any related constraint, and if necessary, adjusts our estimate of the overall transaction price. Any such adjustments are recorded on a cumulative catch-up basis, which would affect revenues and earnings in the period of adjustment. Revisions to our estimate of the transaction price may also result in negative revenues and earnings in the period of adjustment. One collaboration arrangement with milestone payments falls under the scope of ASC 808. These milestone payments are recognized in the same manner as milestone payments from customers and are classified under biopharmaceutical and other revenue. 70 Table of Contents Other Significant Accounting Policies Acquisitions We first determine whether a set of assets acquired and liabilities assumed constitute a business and should be accounted for as a business combination. If the assets acquired are not a business, we account for the transaction as an asset acquisition. Business combinations are accounted for by using the acquisition method of accounting. Under the acquisition method, assets acquired, and liabilities assumed are recorded at their respective fair values as of the acquisition date in our consolidated financial statements. The excess of the fair value of consideration transferred over the fair value of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Contingent consideration obligations incurred in connection with a business combination are recorded at fair value on the acquisition date and remeasured at each subsequent reporting period until the related contingencies are resolved, with the resulting changes in fair value recorded in earnings. The estimation of the fair value of the contingent consideration is based on the present value of the expected payments calculated by assessing the likelihood of when the related milestones would be achieved, discounted using our estimated borrowing rate. Intangible Asset Amortization We have acquired finite-lived and indefinite-lived intangible assets in business combinations. These intangible assets are measured at their respective fair values as of the acquisition date and are subject to potential adjustments within the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition dates. The fair values of the intangible assets are generally determined using income approaches such as the multi-period excess earnings method, the with-and-without method and the relief from royalty method. These income approaches are based on various estimates for each asset including the estimate of future cash flows including, revenue assumptions (such as projected testing volumes, growth rates), discount rates and the expected economic life/obsolescence factors of the respective assets. Our finite-lived intangible assets are being amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives of 4 to 15 years, based on management's estimate of the period over which their economic benefits will be realized, product life and patent life. Our in-process research and development, or IPR&D, is not amortized until it becomes commercially viable and placed in service. At the time when the IPR&D is placed in service, we will determine a useful life. We test these intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis or when events or circumstances indicate a reduction in the fair value below their carrying amounts. Goodwill Goodwill is reviewed for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that it may be impaired. Our goodwill evaluation is based on both qualitative and quantitative assessments regarding the fair value of goodwill relative to its carrying value. We have determined that we operate in a single segment and have a single reporting unit associated with the development and commercialization of diagnostic products. In the event we determine that it is more likely than not the carrying value of the reporting unit is higher than its fair value, quantitative testing is performed comparing recorded values to estimated fair values. If impairment is present, the impairment loss is measured as the excess of the recorded goodwill over its implied fair value. We perform our annual evaluation of goodwill during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. There was no impairment recognized during the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, or 2020. Stock-based Compensation We recognize stock-based compensation expense for only those shares underlying stock options and restricted stock units that we expect to vest on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period of the award. We estimate the fair value of stock options using a Black-Scholes option-pricing model, which requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the option's expected term and stock price volatility. In addition, judgment is also required in estimating the number of stock-based awards that are expected to be forfeited. Forfeitures are estimated based on historical experience at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. Performance-based stock units, which vest upon the achievement of certain performance conditions, are subject to the employees continued service with us. The probability of vesting is assessed at each reporting period and compensation cost is adjusted based on this probability assessment. The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of share-based payment awards represent management's best estimates, but these estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of management's judgment. As a result, if factors change and we use different assumptions, our stock-based compensation expense could be materially different in the future. 71 Table of Contents Supplies and Inventory Supplies consists of materials and reagents consumed in the performance of testing services. Inventory consists of raw materials consumed in the contract manufacturing process as well as finished and semi-finished components used in the assembly of diagnostic kits related to product sales. Inventory is stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value on a weighted average basis. We periodically analyze supply and inventory levels and expiration dates, and write down supply or inventory that has become obsolete, that has a cost basis in excess of its net realizable value, or in excess of expected sales requirements as cost of revenue. We record an allowance for excess or obsolete supplies and inventory using an estimate based on historical trends and evaluation of near-term expirations. Leases We determine if an arrangement is, or contains, a lease at inception. Operating leases are included in right-of-use assets - operating leases and operating lease liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets, representing our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and the obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. Right-of-use, or ROU, assets and lease liabilities are recognized at commencement based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. We use our incremental borrowing rate based on the estimated rate of interest for collateralized borrowing over a similar term of the lease payments. The ROU assets also includes any lease payments made and is adjusted for lease incentives. Lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease which are recognized when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option. Lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease terms. Lease and non-lease components are accounted for as a single lease component. Financing leases are immaterial and are included in property and equipment, net and other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. Leases with terms of 12 months or less are not recorded on our balance sheet. Foreign Currency Translation The functional currency of our foreign subsidiary, Veracyte SAS, is the Euro. Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated to U.S. dollars using the exchange rates at the balance sheet date. Foreign currency translation adjustments are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss within stockholders equity. Revenue and expenses from our foreign subsidiaries are translated using the monthly average exchange rates in effect during the period in which the transactions occur. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses are recorded in other income, net, on the consolidated statements of operations. Comprehensive Loss Comprehensive loss is the change in stockholders equity from transactions and other events and circumstances other than those resulting from investments by stockholders and distributions to stockholders. Our comprehensive loss includes our net loss and gains and losses from the foreign currency translation of the assets and liabilities of our foreign subsidiaries. 72 Table of Contents Results of Operations Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 (in thousands of dollars, except percentages and test volume) Year Ended December 31, 2022 Change % 2021 Revenue: Testing revenue $ 250,544 $ 62,362 33 % $ 188,182 Product revenue 12,632 1,168 10 % 11,464 Biopharmaceutical and other revenue 33,360 13,492 68 % 19,868 Total revenue 296,536 77,022 35 % 219,514 Operating expense: Cost of testing revenue 75,317 16,457 28 % 58,860 Cost of product revenue 7,820 1,933 33 % 5,887 Cost of biopharmaceutical and other revenue 18,445 8,792 91 % 9,653 Research and development 40,603 10,760 36 % 29,843 Selling and marketing 97,560 17,720 22 % 79,840 General and administrative 76,518 (24,835) (25) % 101,353 Intangible asset amortization 21,354 5,373 34 % 15,981 Total operating expenses 337,617 36,200 12 % 301,417 Loss from operations (41,081) 40,822 50 % (81,903) Other income, net 4,654 4,400 1,732 % 254 Loss before income tax benefit (36,427) 45,222 (55) % (81,649) Income tax provision (benefit) 133 6,219 (102) % (6,086) Net loss $ (36,560) $ 39,003 52 % $ (75,563) Other Operating Data: Diagnostic tests reported 93,340 22,891 32 % 70,449 Product tests sold 9,184 1,068 13 % 8,116 Total test volume 102,524 23,959 30 % 78,565 Depreciation and amortization expense $ 25,928 $ 6,335 32 % $ 19,593 Stock-based compensation expense $ 27,456 $ 4,937 22 % $ 22,519 Revenue Revenue increased $77.0 million, or 35%, for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to 2021. This was primarily due to a $62.4 million increase in testing revenue driven by a 32% volume increase, as well as a $13.5 million increase in our Biopharmaceutical and other revenue. Testing revenue and volume reported for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased primarily due to Decipher Prostate tests, which contributed $56.6 million of the increase and was partially impacted by the closing of the Decipher Bioscience acquisition on March 12, 2021. The remaining increase was driven by growth in our Afirma test volume. Product revenue increased $1.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to 2021, driven primarily by product tests kits as well as sales of the nCounter Analysis System. This growth was partially offset by a decline in currency exchange rates, which negatively impacted product revenue by $1.1 million. Biopharmaceutical and other revenue increased by $13.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 driven primarily by the contribution of the HalioDx acquisition and partially offset by a $4.0 million milestone payment received in the prior year period that did not repeat. Currency exchange rates negatively impacted our total revenue by $4.7 million when compared to prior year rates, primarily related to our Biopharmaceutical and other revenue. 73 Table of Contents Comparison of revenue for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 is included in Item 8 of Part II of the Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission dated February 28, 2022. Cost of revenue Comparison of the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 was as follows (in thousands of dollars, except percentages): Year Ended December 31, 2022 Change % 2021 Cost of testing revenue: Laboratory expense $ 37,502 $ 5,312 17 % $ 32,190 Sample collection expense 9,633 4,210 78 % 5,423 Compensation expense 17,018 5,243 45 % 11,775 License fees and royalties 75 (856) (92) % 931 Depreciation and amortization 1,247 106 9 % 1,141 Other expenses 4,080 1,170 40 % 2,910 Allocations 5,762 1,272 28 % 4,490 Total $ 75,317 $ 16,457 28 % $ 58,860 Cost of product revenue: Product costs $ 5,879 $ 1,128 24 % $ 4,751 License fees and royalties 1,089 28 3 % 1,061 Depreciation and amortization 151 76 101 % 75 Other expenses 620 620 NM Allocations 81 81 NM Total $ 7,820 $ 1,933 33 % $ 5,887 Cost of biopharmaceutical and other revenue: Compensation expense $ 8,935 $ 4,678 110 % $ 4,257 License fees and royalties 170 69 68 % 101 Depreciation and amortization 400 166 71 % 234 Other expenses 8,732 3,638 71 % 5,094 Allocations 208 241 (730) % (33) Total $ 18,445 $ 8,792 91 % $ 9,653 Cost of testing revenue increased $16.5 million, or 28.0%, for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to 2021. The increase in cost of testing revenue is due to increased volume in testing, primarily related to Afirma and Decipher Prostate as well as approximately $1.3 million of costs related to sample collection kits that were classified as marketing expense in the prior year. Cost of product revenue is related to sales of Prosigna and nCounter Analysis Systems. Cost of product revenue increased $1.9 million, or 33%, for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the same period in 2021, driven by increased test volume, system sales and transitional costs related to in-sourcing the manufacturing of the product line to our facilities in Marseille, France. This was partially offset by a $0.3 million currency exchange impact. Cost of biopharmaceutical and other revenue includes labor costs incurred by our employees working on customer projects and laboratory supplies and pass-through expenses incurred on these projects. Cost of biopharmaceutical and other 74 Table of Contents revenue increased by $8.8 million driven by the operations of HalioDx following its acquisition on August 2, 2021, including a $1.9 million favorable currency exchange impact when compared to prior year rates. Comparison of cost of revenue for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 are included in Item 8 of Part II of the Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission dated February 28, 2022. Research and development Comparison of the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 was as follows (in thousands of dollars, except percentages): Year Ended December 31, 2022 Change % 2021 Research and development expense Compensation expense $ 27,383 $ 6,276 30 % $ 21,107 Direct research and development expense 5,675 1,171 26 % 4,504 Depreciation and amortization 524 212 68 % 312 Other expenses 4,146 2,389 136 % 1,757 Allocations 2,875 712 33 % 2,163 Total $ 40,603 $ 10,760 36 % $ 29,843 Research and development expense increased $10.8 million or 36% for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to 2021. The increase in compensation expense and other expenses were primarily due to an increase in headcount, including the additions of new personnel from the acquisitions of Decipher Biosciences and HalioDx. The increase in direct research and development expense was primarily related to our on-going clinical studies including but not limited to furthering the support and evidence of our Percepta Nasal Swab test. We recognized a $0.9 million favorable impact from foreign currency exchange when compared to the prior year rates. Comparison of research and development expense for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 are included in Item 8 of Part II of the Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission dated February 28, 2022. Selling and marketing Comparison of the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 was as follows (in thousands of dollars, except percentages): Year Ended December 31, 2022 Change % 2021 Selling and marketing expense: Compensation expense $ 72,258 $ 14,847 26 % $ 57,411 Direct marketing expense 6,138 (1,073) (15) % 7,211 Other expenses 13,485 3,045 29 % 10,440 Allocations 5,679 901 19 % 4,778 Total $ 97,560 $ 17,720 22 % $ 79,840 Selling and marketing expense increased $17.7 million, or 22%, for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to 2021. The increase in compensation expense was primarily due to additional employees and commissions to support the growth of Decipher test volume. Following our acquisition of HalioDx in August 2021, HalioDx's operations contributed to the increase in compensation expenses, inclusive of a $1.0 million favorable impact from foreign currency exchange rates when compared to the prior year rates. The increase in other expenses was primarily due to increased travel and entertainment to also support 75 Table of Contents the Decipher test volume. The reduction in direct marketing expense is related to the reclassification of sample collection kit expense to cost of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2022. Comparison of selling and marketing expense for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 are included in Item 8 of Part II of the Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission dated February 28, 2022. General and administrative Comparison of the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 was as follows (in thousands of dollars, except percentages): Year Ended December 31, 2022 Change % 2021 General and administrative expense: Compensation expense $ 51,357 $ (13,585) (21) % $ 64,942 Occupancy costs 5,816 761 15 % 5,055 Depreciation and amortization 2,245 398 22 % 1,847 Other expenses 31,705 (9,202) (22) % 40,907 Allocations (14,605) (3,207) 28 % (11,398) Total $ 76,518 $ (24,835) (25) % $ 101,353 General and administrative expense decreased $24.8 million, or 25%, for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to 2021. This decrease is driven by expenses recognized for the year ended December 31, 2021 related to the acquisitions of Decipher Biosciences and HalioDx, including $27.0 million of stock-based compensation and $20.1 million of professional fees and other costs associated with the transactions. Following the acquisitions of Decipher Biosciences in March 2021 and HalioDx in August 2021, their operations contributed to an increase in general and administrative expenses. Additionally, we recorded expense of $3.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 related to the impairment of an intangible asset. The remaining increase was primarily due to annual compensation adjustments and investments in infrastructure. General and administrative expenses related to occupancy costs and information technology costs are allocated monthly to general and administrative expense, selling and marketing expense, research and development expense, and cost of revenue based on the headcount and employee location. Foreign currency exchange had a $1.8 million favorable impact on general and administrative expense when compared to prior year rates. Comparison of general and administrative expense for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 are included in Item 8 of Part II of the Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission dated February 28, 2022. Other income, net Other income, net, increased $4.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to 2021, primarily due to an increase of $0.9 million from the CIR related to operations in France, an increase of $1.8 million of interest and dividend income and an increase of $1.3 million of unrealized foreign currency gain (loss). The CIR are generated by our wholly owned subsidiary, Veracyte SAS, in connection with its research efforts performed in Marseille, France. We recognize other income from the CIR over time based on when the research and development expenses are incurred. Comparison of Other income, net, for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 are included in Item 8 of Part II of the Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission dated February 28, 2022. Liquidity and Capital Resources From inception through December 31, 2022, we have been financed primarily through net proceeds from the sale of our equity securities. We have incurred net losses since our inception. For the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, we had net losses of $36.6 million, $75.6 million and $34.9 million, respectively, and we expect to incur additional losses in 2023 and potentially in future years. As of December 31, 2022, we had an accumulated deficit of $393.7 million. 76 Table of Contents We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments of $178.9 million as of December 31, 2022, and cash flows generated by our revenue during the next 12 months will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next 12 months. We expect that our near- and longer-term liquidity requirements will continue to consist of costs to run our laboratories, research and development expenses, selling and marketing expenses, general and administrative expenses, working capital, capital expenditures, lease obligations and general corporate expenses associated with the growth of our business. However, we may also use cash to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, technologies, services or products that would change our cash requirements. If we are not able to generate cash flows from our revenue to finance our cash requirements, we will need to finance future cash needs primarily through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, borrowings or strategic collaborations or licensing arrangements. If we raise funds by issuing equity securities, dilution to stockholders could result. Any equity securities issued also may provide for rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. The terms of debt securities issued or borrowings could impose significant restrictions on our operations. The incurrence of indebtedness or the issuance of certain equity securities could result in increased fixed payment obligations and could also result in restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional debt or issue additional equity, limitations on our ability to acquire or license intellectual property rights, restrictions on our cash and other operating restrictions that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. In addition, the issuance of additional equity securities by us, or the possibility of such issuance, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In the event that we enter into collaborations or licensing arrangements to raise capital, we may be required to accept unfavorable terms. These agreements may require that we relinquish or license to a third-party on unfavorable terms our rights to technologies or product candidates that we otherwise would seek to develop or commercialize ourselves, or reserve certain opportunities for future potential arrangements when we might be able to achieve more favorable terms. If we are not able to secure additional funding when needed, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more research and development programs or selling and marketing initiatives, or forgo potential acquisitions or investments. In addition, we may have to work with a partner on one or more of our products or development programs, which could lower the economic value of those programs to us. Public Offering of Common Stock In February 2021, we issued and sold 8,547,297 shares of common stock in a registered public offering, including 1,114,864 shares issued and sold upon the underwriters exercise in full of their option to purchase additional shares, at a price to the public of $74.00 per share. Our net proceeds from the offering were approximately $593.8 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses of $38.7 million. In August 2020, we issued and sold 6,900,000 shares of common stock in a registered public offering, including 900,000 shares issued and sold upon the underwriters' exercise in full of their option to purchase additional shares, at a price to the public of $30 per share. Our net proceeds from the offering were approximately $193.8 million, after deducting underwriting commissions and offering expenses of $13.2 million. Operating Leases We lease office and laboratory facilities in South San Francisco and San Diego, California; Austin, Texas; Marseille, France; and Richmond, Virginia, and lease certain equipment under various non-cancelable lease agreements. The lease terms extend to October 2030 and contain extension of lease term and expansion options. As of December 31, 2022, the leases have a weighted average remaining lease term of 3.9 years and total future minimum lease payments of $16.6 million. As of December 31, 2022, Veracyte SAS has signed a lease agreement for facilities which will be constructed in Marseille, France. The lease will commence upon completion of the construction of the office building which we currently expect to occur in the fourth quarter of 2023 at which time we will record a lease liability and a corresponding right-of-use asset. The initial term of the lease will be twelve years with annual rent of approximately $1.4 million, which is subject to change based on final construction. Supplies Purchase Commitments We had non-cancelable purchase commitments with suppliers to purchase a minimum quantity of supplies for approximately $10.1 million at December 31, 2022. 77 Table of Contents Acquisition-Related Contingent Consideration In December 2019, we acquired from NanoString the exclusive global diagnostics license to the nCounter Analysis System, the Prosigna breast cancer prognostic gene signature assay, and the LymphMark lymphoma subtyping assay. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, we paid NanoString $40.0 million in cash and $10.0 million in Veracyte common stock, and may pay up to an additional $10.0 million in cash, contingent upon first achievement or occurrence, by or on behalf of Veracyte, of the commercial launch of the first, second and third diagnostic tests for use on the nCounter multiplex analysis system. As of December 31, 2022, the achievement of two of the milestones is forecasted to occur within the next 12 months, requiring payments totaling $7.0 million. HalioDx Acquisition-Related Payments In connection with the HalioDx Acquisition, 11,031 unvested HalioDx free ordinary share awards, or free shares, were modified to provide us the right to purchase the vested free shares (call option) from the holders and the holders the right to sell the vested free shares to us (put option) from time to time through late 2023. As a result of the call and put options, the free shares are liability classified. Additionally, in connection with the HalioDx Acquisition, all of HalioDx's equity-classified options that were outstanding prior to the HalioDx Acquisition were terminated and cancelled at the acquisition date. We committed to pay cash consideration of $1.5 million to holders of unvested options on the date the employee satisfies the original service requirement. As part of the agreement, we held back $16.8 million of the cash consideration, or the holdback, which will be payable to the founders of HalioDx based on their continuous employment with us. Fifty percent of the holdback was placed in escrow on the founders' behalf on the first anniversary of the closing date and the remainder will be paid directly to the founders on the second anniversary. As of December 31, 2022, the remaining amount to be paid for all HalioDx related items was $9.6 million subject to holders continued service, excluding any potential associated social charges. Loan and Security Agreement On November 3, 2017, we entered into the Loan and Security Agreement with Silicon Valley Bank. The Loan and Security Agreement allowed us to borrow up to $35.0 million, with a $25.0 million term loan, or Term Loan, and a revolving line of credit of up to $10.0 million, or the Revolving Line of Credit, subject to, with respect to the Revolving Line of Credit, a borrowing base of 85% of eligible accounts receivable. In October 2022, the Loan and Security Agreement matured, and we repaid the outstanding principal and final payment totaling $1.2 million. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 (in thousands of dollars): Years Ended December 31, 2022 2021 2020 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 7,535 $ (31,621) $ (9,711) Net cash used in investing activities (29,387) (739,206) (3,837) Net cash provided by financing activities 3,494 596,320 203,595 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $7.5 million. The net loss of $36.6 million includes non-cash charges of $26.7 million of stock-based compensation expense, $25.9 million of depreciation and amortization, including $21.4 million of intangible asset amortization, $3.3 million of impairment of intangible asset, noncash lease expense of $3.3 million, and $0.5 million of foreign currency loss. Cash used as a result of changes in operating assets and liabilities was $16.4 million, primarily comprising an increase in accounts receivable of $4.5 million, a decrease in accrued liabilities of $3.9 million, a decrease in operating lease liability of $3.4 million, an increase in supplies and inventory of 78 Table of Contents $3.0 million, and an increase in other assets of $3.0 million, partially offset by a decrease in prepaid expense and other current assets of $1.4 million. Cash used in operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2021 was $31.6 million. The net loss of $75.6 million includes non-cash charges of $22.5 million of stock-based compensation expense, $19.6 million of depreciation and amortization, including $16.0 million of intangible asset amortization, $6.3 million of deferred income taxes, noncash lease expense of $1.6 million, $1.2 million of foreign currency loss, and a $0.8 million expense for the revaluation of the contingent consideration related to the NanoString transaction. Cash provided by changes in operating assets and liabilities was $4.2 million, primarily comprised of an increase in accrued liabilities of $14.4 million and an increase in accounts payable of $5.2 million, partially offset by an increase in accounts receivable of $8.6 million, an increase in prepaid expense and other current assets of $3.3 million, an increase in supplies of $1.5 million and a decrease in operating lease liability of $1.8 million. Cash used in operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2020 was $9.7 million. The net loss of $34.9 million includes non-cash charges of $13.0 million of stock-based compensation expense, $7.9 million of depreciation and amortization, including $5.1 million of intangible asset amortization, a $1.1 million write-down of supplies, noncash lease expense of $1.0 million, an impairment loss of $1.0 million and a $1.5 million expense for the revaluation of the contingent consideration related to the NanoString transaction. Cash used as a result of changes in operating assets and liabilities was $0.5 million, primarily comprised of a decrease in accrued liabilities of $0.9 million, a decrease in operating lease liability of $1.4 million, and an increase in prepaid expense and other current assets of $1.0 million, partially offset by a decrease in accounts receivable of $1.0 million, an increase in accounts payable of $0.7 million and a decrease in supplies of $1.1 million. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $29.4 million for the purchase and maturity of short-term investments and acquisition of property and equipment. Cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2021 was $739.2 million consisting of $574.4 million for the acquisition of Decipher Biosciences, $162.4 million for the acquisition of HalioDx and $5.4 million for the acquisition of property and equipment partially offset by $3.0 million of proceeds from the sale of an equity investment. Cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2020 was $2.8 million for the acquisition of property and equipment and $1.0 million for the purchase of equity securities of MAVIDx, Inc. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $3.5 million, consisting of $7.9 million in proceeds from the exercise of options to purchase our common stock and purchase of stock under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan, or ESPP, partially offset by $3.2 million in tax payments during the period related to the vesting of restricted stock units granted to employees and $1.3 million in payment of long-term debt. Cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2021 was $596.3 million, consisting of $593.8 million in net proceeds from the issuance of common stock in a public offering in February 2021, $11.5 million in proceeds from the exercise of options to purchase our common stock and purchase of stock under our ESPP partially offset by $9.0 million in tax payments during the period related to the vesting of restricted stock units granted to employees. Cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2020 was $203.6 million, consisting of $193.8 million in net proceeds from the issuance of common stock in a public offering in August 2020, $13.7 million in proceeds from the exercise of options to purchase our common stock and purchase of stock under our ESPP partially offset by $3.8 million in tax payments during the period related to the vesting of restricted stock units granted to employees. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In October 2021, the FASB issued ASU 2021-08, Business Combinations (Topic 805): Accounting for Contract Assets and Contract Liabilities from Contracts with Customers , which requires entities to recognize and measure contract assets and contract liabilities acquired in a business combination in accordance with ASC 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). The update will generally result in an entity recognizing contract assets and contract liabilities at 79 Table of Contents amounts consistent with those recorded by the acquiree immediately before the acquisition date rather than at fair value. The new standard is effective on a prospective basis for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2022, with early adoption permitted. We do not expect to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures from the adoption of this guidance. 
