CIK: 1492422
Company Name: APELLIS PHARMACEUTICALS INC 
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2024-02-27
Accession Number: 0000950170-24-020614


Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis o f Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion and other parts of this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties, such as statements of our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. As a result of many factors, including those factors set forth in the Risk Factors section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our actual results could differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis. Overview We are a commercial-stage biopharmaceutical company focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of novel therapeutic compounds to treat diseases with high unmet needs through the inhibition of the complement system, which is an integral component of the immune system, at the level of C3, the central protein in the complement cascade. We believe that this approach can result in broad inhibition of the principal pathways of the complement system and has the potential to effectively control diseases with high unmet need and that are driven by excessive complement activation. In February 2023, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA, approved SYFOVRE (pegcetacoplan injection), the first approved treatment for geographic atrophy secondary to age-related macular degeneration, or GA. We believe SYFOVRE has the potential to be a best-in-class treatment for patients with GA, a disease that affects more than one million people in the United States and five million people worldwide. We launched SYFOVRE in the United States in March 2023. For the year ended December 31, 2023, we generated $275.2 million in net product revenue from sales of SYFOVRE. In December 2022, we also submitted a marketing authorization application, or MAA, to the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, for intravitreal pegcetacoplan for the treatment of GA. The EMA subsequently provided MAA validation and the application is under review. In January 2024, we announced that the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use, or CHMP, adopted a negative opinion on the MAA for intravitreal pegcetacoplan. We are initiating the re-examination of the application. Additionally, we received validation of our marketing applications by regulatory authorities in Canada, Australia, the United Kingdom, and Switzerland for the treatment of GA. We have exclusive, worldwide commercialization rights for intravitreal pegcetacoplan. In July 2023, we d isclosed that we had received reports of a small number of events of retinal vasculitis following SYFOVRE treatment. As of mid-February 2024, and following the distribution of more than 200,000 doses (commercial and sample) of SYFOVRE, we estimate that the rate of incidence of retinal vasculitis remains rare at approximately 0.01% per injection. In November 2023, we updated the U.S. Prescribing Information, or USPI, for SYFOVRE in collaboration with the FDA to include the events of retinal vasculitis with or without occlusion as part of the Warnings and Precautions and Adverse Reactions Postmarketing Experience sections of the USPI. We believe that the reports of retinal vasculitis had an adverse impact on our sales of SYFOVRE during the year ended December 31, 2023. The U.S. Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services assigned a permanent and product-specific J-code for SYFOVRE, which became effective on October 1, 2023. J-codes are permanent reimbursement codes used by government payers and commercial insurers to facilitate billing of Medicare Part B treatments, which must be administered by a healthcare professional. In May 2021, the FDA approved EMPAVELI (pegcetacoplan), the first targeted C3 therapy for the treatment of paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria, or PNH. EMPAVELI is approved for use in adults with PNH and can be used by patients who are either treatment-na ve or who are switching from C5 inhibitors eculizumab or ravulizumab. We believe that EMPAVELI has the potential to elevate the standard of care in PNH and are seeking to establish EMPAVELI as the preferred first-line treatment for patients. In the United States, there are approximately 1,500 patients with PNH currently being treated with C5 inhibitors and another 150 patients who are expected to be newly diagnosed each year. In October 2023, the FDA approved the EMPAVELI injector, a compact, single-use, on-body device designed to enhance self-administration of EMPAVELI. For the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, we generated $91.0 million and $65.1 million, respectively, in net product revenue from sales of EMPAVELI. In December 2021, the European Commission, or the EC, approved Aspaveli (pegcetacoplan) for the treatment of adults with PNH who are anemic after treatment with a C5 inhibitor for at least three months. In January 2024, following the submission of the Phase 3 PRINCE data in treatment-na ve PNH patients, the EC updated the Aspaveli indication statement to include all PNH patients with hemolytic anemia. To date, systemic pegcetacoplan has also been approved for the treatment of PNH in Japan, Saudi Arabia, Australia, the United Kingdom and other jurisdictions. Systemic pegcetacoplan is currently marketed under the trade name EMPAVELI in the United States, Saudi Arabia and Australia and Aspaveli in the European Union, Japan and United Kingdom. Under our collaboration and license agreement, or the Sobi collaboration agreement, with Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (Publ), or Sobi, Sobi has global co-development and exclusive ex-U.S. commercialization rights for systemic pegcetacoplan and initiated the commercial launch of EMPAVELI/Aspaveli in jurisdictions outside of the United States during the first quarter of 2022. We have commercialization rights for systemic pegcetacoplan in the United States. We believe that inhibition of the complement system by targeting C3 may enable a broad range of therapeutic approaches, and that pegcetacoplan has the potential to address the limitations of existing treatment options or provide a treatment option in indications 102 Table of Contents where there currently are none. Under our collaboration with Sobi, we are leading the development of systemic pegcetacoplan in C3 glomerulopathy, or C3G, and immune complex membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis, or IC-MPGN, in nephrology. We are also evaluating the administration of systemic pegcetacoplan as a novel approach to enabling adeno associated virus, or AAV, vector administration for gene therapies. Under our collaboration with Sobi, we are co-developing systemic pegcetacoplan for hematopoietic stem cell transplantation-associated thrombotic microangiopathy, or HSCT-TMA, in hematology. In January 2024, Sobi, with our agreement, discontinued the CASCADE Phase 3 trial evaluating systemic pegcetacoplan in patients with cold agglutinin disease, or CAD, due to the decreased medical need in CAD and the limited number of patients eligible for the CASCADE trial. In May 2023, we and Sobi announced that the Phase 2 MERIDIAN study evaluating systemic pegcetacoplan for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or ALS, did not meet its primary or key secondary endpoints. Based on this lack of efficacy, we and Sobi discontinued development of systemic pegcetacoplan for ALS. We are developing additional product candidates with other routes of administration. These candidates include APL-3007, a small interfering RNA, or siRNA, which is in a Phase 1 clinical trial in healthy volunteers, as well as an oral complement inhibitor in preclinical development. Furthermore, we are collaborating with Beam Therapeutics, Inc., or Beam, on up to six research programs focused on C3 and other complement targets in the eye, liver and brain, using Beam proprietary base editing technology to discover new treatments for complement-driven diseases. Since our commencement of operations in May 2010, we have devoted substantially all of our resources to developing our proprietary technology, developing product candidates, undertaking preclinical studies and conducting clinical trials for pegcetacoplan, building our intellectual property portfolio, organizing and staffing our company, business planning, raising capital, preparing for and executing the commercial launch of our products and providing general and administrative support for these operations. In the third quarter of 2023, we effected a workforce reduction of approximately 225 employees, or approximately 25% of our then current workforce. Pursuant to the restructuring, we determined to (i) continue to support the U.S. commercial launch of SYFOVRE and prepare for potential ex-U.S. launches (ii) reduce EMPAVELI expenses through a more focused commercial and medical PNH organization, (iii) prioritize research initiatives in retina and central nervous system diseases and (iv) continue our collaboration with Beam. At that time, we estimated that the corporate restructuring and associated reduction in workforce would result in total cost savings of up to $300 million through 2024, including more than $70 million in expected net costs savings related to the reduction in workforce and up to $230 million related to elimination of planned external expenses. Our workforce reduction was substantially completed in the three months ended September 30, 2023. We do not expect to incur any material additional costs relating to the workforce reduction in 2024. To date, we have financed our operations primarily through $1.9 billion in net proceeds from public offerings of our common Stock and pre-funded warrants to purchase common stock, $535.8 million in net proceeds from offerings of Convertible Notes, a $250.0 million up-front payment and $65.0 million development reimbursement payments from Sobi pursuant to the Sobi collaboration agreement, $112.6 million in proceeds from the private placement of shares of our convertible preferred stock prior to our initial public offering, or IPO, $140.0 million under the SFJ agreement, $20.0 million in proceeds from borrowings under a term loan facility with Silicon Valley Bank, and $7.0 million in proceeds from our issuance and sale of a promissory note. We have repaid the term loan facility and the promissory note in full, and we exchanged $425.4 million and converted $0.7 million of aggregate principal amount of our Convertible Notes for shares of our common stock We have incurred significant annual net operating losses in each year since our inception and expect to continue to incur net operating losses for at least this year. Our net losses were $528.6 million, $652.2 million, and $746.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. As of December 31, 2023, we had an accumulated deficit of $2.8 billion. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. We anticipate that we will continue to incur significant commercialization expenses related to sales, marketing, medical affairs, manufacturing, distribution and other commercial infrastructure associated with the commercialization of EMPAVELI for the treatment of PNH and the commercialization of SYFOVRE for the treatment of GA. In addition, we expect to continue to incur these expenses if and as we continue to develop and conduct our ongoing and planned clinical trials of pegcetacoplan and our other product candidates; initiate and continue research and preclinical and clinical development efforts for any future product candidates; seek to identify and develop additional product candidates for complement-dependent diseases; seek regulatory and marketing approvals for our product candidates that successfully complete clinical trials, if any; establish sales, marketing, distribution and other commercial infrastructure to commercialize any additional products for which we may obtain marketing approval; require the manufacture of larger quantities of product candidates for clinical development and, potentially, commercialization; maintain, expand and protect our intellectual property portfolio; hire and retain additional personnel, such as clinical, quality control, regulatory and scientific personnel; add operational, financial and management information systems and personnel, including personnel to support our product development and add equipment and physical infrastructure to support our research and development programs and commercialization. 103 Table of Contents SFJ Agreement On February 28, 2019, we entered into a development funding agreement, which we refer to as the SFJ agreement, with SFJ Pharmaceuticals Group, or SFJ, under which SFJ agreed to provide funding to us to support the development of systemic pegcetacoplan for the treatment of patients with PNH. Pursuant to the agreement, SFJ paid us $60.0 million following the signing of the agreement and agreed to pay us up to an additional $60.0 million in the aggregate in three equal installments upon the achievement of specified development milestones with respect to our Phase 3 program for pegcetacoplan in PNH and subject to our having cash resources at the time sufficient to fund at least 10 months of our operations. In June 2019 we amended the SFJ agreement to include an additional $20 million funding payment. SFJ paid us $80.0 million under the amended SFJ agreement between June 2019 and January 2020. Under the SFJ agreement, following regulatory approvals by the FDA and the EC for the use of systemic pegcetacoplan as a treatment for PNH, we paid SFJ $4.0 million in 2021 in connection with the FDA approval in May 2021 and $5.0 million in January 2022 in connection with the EC approval in December 2021. In addition, we paid $11.5 million in connection with the one-year anniversary of the FDA approval in May 2022 and $18.0 million in connection with the one-year anniversary of the EC approval in December 2022 and $24.5 million in connection with the two-year anniversary of FDA approval in May 2023 and $31.0 million in connection with the two-year anniversary of EC approval in December 2023. We are obligated to pay SFJ additional payments due on each anniversary of FDA and EC regulatory approval through 2027. Convertible Notes On September 16, 2019, we completed a private offering of convertible notes, or the 2019 Convertible Notes, with an aggregate principal amount of $220.0 million issued pursuant to an indenture, or the Indenture, with U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee. The net proceeds from the sale of the 2019 Convertible Notes were approximately $212.9 million after deducting the initial purchasers discounts and commissions of $6.6 million and offering expenses of $0.5 million. We used $28.4 million of the net proceeds from the sale of the 2019 Convertible Notes to pay the cost of the capped call transactions in September 2019 described below. On May 12, 20 20, we issued convertible notes, or the 2020 Convertible Notes, with an aggregate principal amount of $300.0 million. The net proceeds from the sale of the 2020 Convertible Notes were approximately $322.9 after deducting the purchasers discounts and commission of $5.7 million and offering expenses of $0.3 million. We used $43.1 million of the net proceeds from the sale to pay the cost of the additional capped call transactions in May 2020 described below. The 2019 Conve rtible Notes and the 2020 Convertible Notes are referred to together as the Convertible Notes. The Convertible Notes are our senior unsecured obligations and bear interest at a rate of 3.5% per year payable semiannually in arrears on March 15 and September 15 of each year, beginning on March 15, 2020. The Convertible Notes will mature on September 15, 2026, unless converted earlier, redeemed or repurchased in accordance with their terms. The Convertible Notes are convertible into shares of our common stock at an initial conversion rate of 25.3405 shares per $1,000 principal amount of notes (equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $39.4625 per share of common stock). The conversion rate is subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments. In addition, following certain events that occur prior to the maturity date or if we deliver a notice of redemption, we will increase the conversion rate for a holder who elects to convert its Convertible Notes in connection with such corporate event or a notice of redemption, as the case may be, in certain circumstances as provided in the indenture governing the Convertible Notes, or the Indenture. Prior to March 15, 2026, the Convertible Notes are convertible only under the following circumstances: during any calendar quarter, if the last reported sale price of our common stock for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on, and including, the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter is greater than or equal to 130% of the conversion price on each applicable trading day; during the five business day period after any five consecutive trading day period in which the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of the Convertible Notes for each such trading day was less than 98% of the product of the last reported sale price of our common stock and the conversion rate on each such trading day; if we call any or all of the Convertible Notes for redemption, at any time prior to the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding the redemption date; or upon the occurrence of corporate events specified in the Indenture. 104 Table of Contents On or after March 15, 2026 until the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding the maturity date of the Convertible Notes, holders may convert the Convertible Notes at any time regardless of the foregoing circumstances. Upon conversion of the Convertible Notes, we will pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and shares of common stock, at our election. As of September 20, 2023, we may redeem for cash all or a portion of the Convertible Notes, at our option, if the last reported sale price of our common stock has been at least 130% of the conversion price then in effect for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive), including the trading day immediately preceding the date on which we provide a notice of redemption, during any 30 consecutive trading day period ending on, and including, the trading day immediately preceding the date on which we provide notice of redemption. The redemption price will be equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the redemption date. If we call any Convertible Notes for redemption, it will constitute a make-whole fundamental change with respect to such Convertible Notes, in which case the conversion rate applicable to the conversion of such Notes, if converted in connection with the redemption, will be increased in certain circumstances. We have not called for redemption any of the Convertible Notes as of December 31, 2023. If we undergo a fundamental change, as defined in the Indenture, prior to maturity, subject to certain conditions, holders may require us to repurchase for cash all or any portion of their Convertible Notes at a fundamental change repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be repurchased, plus any accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the fundamental change repurchase date. We used an effective interest rate of 10.5% to determine the liability component of the 2019 and 2020 Convertible Notes. This resulted in the recognition of $145.1 million and $204.5 million as the liability component of the 2019 and 2020 Convertible Notes, respectively, and the recognition of the residual amount of $74.9 million and $95.5 million as the debt discount with a corresponding increase to additional paid in capital for the equity component of the 2019 and 2020 Convertible Notes, respectively. The 2020 Convertible Notes aggregate debt issuance costs of $6.0 million were allocated to the liability and equity components in the amounts of $3.7 and $2.3 million, respectively. The 2019 Convertible Notes aggregate debt issuance costs of $7.1 million were allocated to the liability and equity components in the amounts of $4.7 million and $2.4 million, respectively. In January 2021, July 2021 and July 2022, we entered into separate, privately negotiated exchange agreements to modify the conversion terms with certain holders of the 2019 Convertible Notes and 2020 Convertible Notes. Under the terms of these exchange agreements, in January 2021, July 2021 and July 2022, the holders exchanged approximately $126.1 million of 2019 Convertible Notes, $201.1 million of 2019 Convertible Notes and 2020 Convertible Notes, and $98.1 million of 2020 Convertible Notes, respectively, in aggregate principal amount held by them for an aggregate of 3,906,869 shares, 5,992,217 shares and 3,027,018 shares, respectively, of common stock we issued. In accordance with ASC Topic 470-20, Debt Debt with Conversion and Other Options, or ASC 470-20, we accounted for the exchange as an induced conversion based on the short period of time the conversion offer was open and the substantive conversion feature offer. We accounted for the conversion of the debt as an inducement by expensing the fair value of the shares that were issued in excess of the original terms of the Convertible Notes. As a result of the January 2021 exchange transactions, we reduced net debt outstanding and increased net equity on the consolidated balance sheet by $122.8 million, consisting of the par value of the 2019 Convertible Notes exchanged of $126.1 million less the $3.3 million of remaining debt issuance costs associated with the exchanged notes. We also increased shares outstanding by 3,906,869 shares consisting of 3,196,172 shares issued at the initial conversion rate in the Indenture of 25.3405 plus an additional 710,697 shares. Additionally, we issued 69,491 shares as settlement of debt issuance costs paid to our financial advisor in connection with the exchange transaction. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, we recorded a loss on conversion of debt of $39.5 million comprised of $36.4 million related to the value of the shares issued in excess of the original conversion terms at the fair market value and $3.1 million for the value of the 69,491 shares issued in payment of issuance costs at their then fair value. Upon exchange of the 2019 Convertible Notes, the holders forfeited accrued interest through the date of the exchange of $1.7 million, which we charged to interest expense and to equity. As a result of the July 2021 exchange transactions, we reduced net debt outstanding and increased net equity on the consolidated balance sheet by $197.0 million, consisting of the par value of the Convertible Notes exchanged of $201.1 million less the $4.1 million of remaining debt issuance costs associated with the exchanged notes. We also increased shares outstanding by 5,992,217 shares consisting of 5,097,166 shares issued at the initial conversion rate in the Indenture of 25.3405 plus an additional 895,051 shares. Additionally, we issued 78,419 shares as settlement of issuance costs paid to our financial advisor in connection with the exchange transaction. For the three months ended September 30, 2021, we recorded a loss on conversion of debt of $61.1 million comprised of $55.9 million related to the value of the shares issued in excess of the original conversion terms at the fair market value and $5.2 million for the value of the 78,419 shares issued in payment of issuance costs at their then fair value. Upon exchange of the Convertible Notes, the holders forfeited accrued interest through the date of the exchange of $2.5 million, which we charged to interest expense and to equity. 105 Table of Contents As a result of the July 2022 exchange transactions, we reduced net debt outstanding and increased net equity on the consolidated balance sheet by $96.8 million, consisting of the par value of the Convertible Notes exchanged of $98.1 million less the $1.3 million of remaining debt issuance costs associated with the exchanged notes. We also increased shares outstanding by 3,027,018 shares consisting of 2,485,548 shares issued at the initial conversion rate in the Indenture of 25.3405 plus an additional 541,470 shares. Additionally, we issued 46,132 shares as settlement of issuance costs paid to our financial advisor in connection with the exchange transaction. For the three months ended September 30, 2022, we recorded a loss on conversion of debt of $32.9 million comprised of $30.4 million related to the value of the shares issued in excess of the original conversion terms at the fair market value and $2.5 million for the value of the 46,132 shares issued in payment of issuance costs at their then fair value. Upon exchange of the Convertible Notes, the holders forfeited accrued interest through the date of the exchange of $1.3 million, which we charged to interest expense and to equity. A conditional conversion feature of the Convertible Notes was triggered as of June 30, 2021, and as a result the Convertible Notes were convertible at the option of the holders until September 30, 2021. During this period, certain holders of the Convertible Notes converted approximately $0.7 million of aggregate principal amount of Convertible Notes into an aggregate of 18,775 shares, which were issued in October 2021. The conditional conversion feature of the Convertible Notes was again triggered as of December 31, 2023, and as a result the Convertible Notes are convertible at the option of the holders until March 31, 2024. As of December 31, 2023 we held in treasury Convertible Notes in principal amount of $425.4 million which notes had not been cancelled. Approximately $93.9 million principal amount of Convertible Notes remained outstanding and held by third parties as of December 31, 2023. Capped Call Transactions In September 2019 and May 2020, concurrently with the pricing of the 2019 Convertible Notes and 2020 Convertible Notes, respectively, we entered into capped call transactions with two counterparties. The capped call transactions are expected generally to reduce the potential dilution to our common stock upon any conversion of Convertible Notes and/or offset any cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount of converted Convertible Notes, as the case may be, in the event that the market price per share of our common stock, as measured under the terms of the capped call transactions, is greater than the strike price of the capped call transactions, which is initially $39.4625, the conversion price of the Convertible Notes, and is subject to anti-dilution adjustments substantially similar to those applicable to the conversion rate of such Convertible Notes. If, however, the market price per share of our common stock, as measured under the terms of the capped call transactions, exceeds $63.14, the cap price of the capped call transactions, there would nevertheless be dilution and/or there would not be an offset of such potential cash payments, in each case, to the extent that such market price exceeds the cap price of the capped call transactions. Collaboration Agreement with Sobi On October 27, 2020, we entered into the Sobi collaboration agreement, concerning the development and commercialization of pegcetacoplan and specified other structurally and functionally similar compstatin analogues or derivatives for use systemically or for local non-ophthalmological administration, collectively referred to as the licensed products. We granted Sobi an exclusive (subject to certain rights retained by us), sublicensable license of certain patent rights and know-how to develop and commercialize licensed products in all countries outside of the United States. We retained the right to commercialize licensed products in the United States, and, subject to specified limitations, to develop licensed products worldwide for commercialization in the United States. Under the agreement, Sobi made an upfront payment of $250.0 million in November 2020, and agreed to pay up to an aggregate of $915.0 million upon the achievement of specified one-time regulatory and commercial milestone events, of which we received $50.0 million in April 2022 for the achievement of a regulatory development milestone in Europe and $5.0 million in October 2023 for the achievement of a regulatory development milestone in Japan. Following our and Sobi decision to discontinue development of systemic pegcetacoplan for CAD and ALS, we will not achieve the milestones related to those indications, which represent $120.0 million of the $915.0 million aggregate amount. Sobi also agreed to reimburse us for up to $80.0 million in development costs, of which we received $25.0 million in January 2021, $20.0 million in January 2022 and $20.0 million in January 2023. In January 2024, we waived the payment of the final reimbursement payment of $15.0 million in connection with the decision to discontinue the CAD program. We are also entitled to receive tiered, double-digit royalties (ranging from high teens to high twenties) on sales of licensed products outside of the United States, subject to customary deductions and third-party payment obligations, until the latest to occur of: (i) expiration of the last-to-expire of specified licensed patent rights; (ii) expiration of regulatory exclusivity; and (iii) ten (10) years after the first commercial sale of the applicable licensed product, in each case on a licensed product-by-licensed product and country-by-country basis. We remain responsible for our license fee obligations (including royalty obligations) to the University of Pennsylvania and for our payment obligations to SFJ. 106 Table of Contents Financial Operations Overview Revenue Our revenues consist of product sales of EMPAVELI and SYFOVRE, and revenues derived from our collaboration arrangement with Sobi. Revenue is recognized when, or as, we satisfy a performance obligation by transferring a promised good or service to a customer. An asset is transferred when, or as, the customer obtains control of that asset. For performance obligations that are satisfied over time, we recognize revenue using an input or output measure of progress that best depicts the satisfaction of the relevant performance obligation. Product Revenues Product revenue is derived from our sales of our commercial products, EMPAVELI and SYFOVRE, in the United States . Licensing and Collaboration Revenue Licensing and other revenue is derived from our collaboration agreement with Sobi concerning the development and commercialization of pegcetacoplan and specified other compstatin analogues or derivatives for use systemically or for local non-ophthalmic administration. Cost of Sales Cost of sales consists primarily of costs associated with the manufacturing of EMPAVELI and SYFOVRE, royalties owed to our licensor for such sales, and certain period costs. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses consist primarily of costs incurred for our research activities, including our drug discovery efforts, and the development of our product candidates, which include: employee-related expenses including salaries, bonuses, benefits and share-based compensation expense related to individuals performing research and development activities; expenses incurred under agreements with third parties, including contract research organizations, or CROs, that conduct clinical trials and research and development activities on our behalf, and contract manufacturing organizations that manufacture quantities of drug supplies for both our preclinical studies and clinical trials; the cost of consultants, including share-based compensation expense; and various other expenses incident to the management of our preclinical studies and clinical trials. Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Nonrefundable advance payments for goods or services to be received in the future for use in research and development activities are deferred and capitalized. The capitalized amounts are expensed as the related goods are delivered or the services are performed. We have not provided program costs since inception because historically we have not tracked or recorded our research and development expenses by program. The successful development of our product candidates is highly uncertain. Accordingly, at this time, we cannot reasonably estimate the nature, timing and costs of the efforts that will be necessary to complete the remainder of the development of these product candidates. We are also unable to predict when, if ever, material net cash inflows will commence from pegcetacoplan or any other potential product candidates. This is due to the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing therapeutics, including the uncertainties of: establishing an appropriate safety profile in preclinical studies; successful enrollment in, and completion of clinical trials; receipt of marketing approvals from applicable regulatory authorities; establishing commercial manufacturing capabilities or making arrangements with third-party manufacturers; obtaining and maintaining patent and trade secret protection and regulatory exclusivity for our product candidates; 107 Table of Contents launching commercial sales of the products, if and when approved, whether alone or in collaboration with others; and an acceptable safety profile of the products following approval. A change in the outcome of any of these variables with respect to the development of any of our product candidates would significantly change the costs and timing associated with the development of that product candidate. Research and development activities are central to our business model. Product candidates in later stages of clinical development generally have higher development costs than those in earlier stages of clinical development, primarily due to the increased size and duration of later-stage clinical trials. We expect research and development costs to increase for the foreseeable future as our product candidate development programs progress. However, we do not believe that it is possible at this time to accurately project total program-specific expenses through commercialization. There are numerous factors associated with the successful commercialization of any of our product candidates, including future trial design and various regulatory requirements, many of which cannot be determined with accuracy at this time based on our stage of development. Additionally, future commercial and regulatory factors beyond our control will impact our clinical development programs and plans. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses consist primarily of employee-related expenses including salaries, bonuses, benefits and share-based compensation. Other significant costs include facility costs not otherwise included in research and development expenses, legal fees relating to patent and corporate matters, and fees for accounting and consulting services. We anticipate that our general and administrative expenses will increase in the future to support continued research and development activities, potential commercialization of our product candidates and costs of operating as a public company. Critical Accounting Estimates This discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our financial statements, which we have prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of expenses during the reporting periods. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those described in greater detail below. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. While our significant accounting policies are described in more detail in Note 2 in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we believe that the following accounting policies are the most critical to aid you in fully understanding and evaluating our financial condition and results of operations. Product Revenues As of December 31, 2023, our revenues from net product sales were generated in the United States following the FDA approval for marketing of EMPAVELI for the treatment of PNH in May 2021 and SYFOVRE for the treatment of GA in February 2023. We sell EMPAVELI and SYFOVRE principally through arrangements with specialty pharmacies, or SPs, and specialty distributors, or SDs, who are our customers. The customers subsequently resell the product to patients and health care providers. We account for contracts with its customers in accordance with ASC 606. Pursuant to ASC 606, for arrangements or transactions between arrangement participants determined to be within the scope of the contracts with customers guidance, we perform the following five steps to determine the appropriate amount of revenue to be recognized as we fulfill our obligations: (i) identification of the promised goods or services in the contract; (ii) determination of whether the promised goods or services are performance obligations including whether they are distinct in the context of the contract; (iii) measurement of the transaction price, including the constraint on variable consideration; (iv) allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations based on estimated selling prices; and (v) recognition of revenue when (or as) we satisfy each performance obligation. Revenue is recognized when, or as, we satisfy a performance obligation by transferring a promised good or service to a customer. An asset is transferred when, or as, the customer obtains control of that asset. For performance obligations that are satisfied over time, we recognize revenue using an input or output measure of progress that best depicts the satisfaction of the relevant performance obligation. 108 Table of Contents We recognize revenue from product sales at the net sales price which includes estimates of variable consideration for which reserves are established and reflects each of these as a reduction to the revenue. Overall, these reserves reflect our best estimates of the amount of consideration to which we are entitled based on the terms of the contract. The amount of variable consideration that is included in the transaction price may be constrained. Actual amounts of consideration ultimately received may differ from our estimates. If actual results in the future vary from estimates, we may need to adjust its estimates, which would affect net revenue in the period of adjustment. The following are our significant categories of sales discounts and allowances: Distribution Fees: Distribution fees include distribution service fees paid to SPs and SDs based on a contractually fixed percentage of the wholesale acquisition cost, or WAC. We do not receive a distinct good or service in exchange for the payment. Distribution fees are recorded as an offset to revenue based on contractual terms at the time revenue from the sale is recognized. Chargebacks: Chargebacks are discounts and fees related to contracts with various third-party payers including pharmacy benefit managers, private healthcare insurers and government healthcare programs that purchase from SDs at a discounted price. SDs charge back to us the difference between the price initially paid by SDs and the discounted price paid to SDs by these entities. We issue credit notes for the chargeback which are applied to future sales. Product Returns: Consistent with industry practice, we offer SPs and SDs limited product return rights for damages, shipment errors, and expiring product; provided that the return is within a specified period around the product expiration date as set forth in the applicable individual distribution agreement. We do not allow product returns for product that has been dispensed to a patient. As we receive inventory reports from SPs and SDs and have visibility into the inventory distribution channel, we are able to make a reasonable estimate of future potential product returns based on this on-hand channel inventory data and sell-through data obtained from SPs and SDs. In arriving at our estimate for product returns, we also consider historical product returns, the underlying product demand, and industry data specific to the specialty pharmaceutical distribution industry. Licensing Revenue On October 27, 2020, we entered into the collaboration agreement with Sobi concerning the development and commercialization of pegcetacoplan and specified other compstatin analogues or derivatives for use systemically or for local non-ophthalmic administration, collectively referred to as the Licensed Products. See Business Collaboration and License Agreement with Sobi for a description of the key terms of our collaboration agreement with Sobi. We have determined that the collaboration agreement is within the scope of ASC Topic 808, Collaborative Arrangements, or ASC 808, as a contractual arrangement that involves a joint operating activity whereby both parties are (i) active participants in the activity and (ii) exposed to certain significant risks and rewards dependent on the commercial success of the activity. ASC Topic 808 does not address measurement or recognition matters but allows for analogizing to ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers , or ASC 606. Pursuant to ASC 606, we performed the following five steps: (i) identified the contract with a customer; (ii) identified the performance obligations in the contract; (iii) determined the transaction price; (iv) allocated the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract; and (v) recognized revenue when the entity satisfied a performance obligation. We identified the following material promises under the Sobi Agreement: (1) licenses to develop and commercialize pegcetacoplan, or Licenses to IP, and (2) performance of research and development services. We determined the promises to be distinct because Sobi can benefit from each of the license and the development services on their own or with readily available services. We could have provided the license without any development services and Sobi would have been able to benefit from it by obtaining development services from another provider as the Licensed Products are at a more mature stage in their life cycle. At inception of the collaboration agreement, we considered the $250.0 million non-refundable payment and the $80.0 million fixed proceeds. We also evaluated whether Sobi is a customer for either of the distinct promises in the agreement. Under the Licenses to IP, we determined that Sobi is a customer as the know-how provided and the rights granted by us to Sobi are outputs of our business activities for which we will receive consideration. With respect to research and development activity, management determined that there is no vendor relationship as performing research and development activities for others is not a part of our ongoing central operations. Based upon the evaluation of the relative fair values, we allocated the purchase price of $250.0 million and the related milestones and royalties to the license of IP and $80.0 million to performance of research and development activities. The milestone and royalty payments are subject to activities outside our control. Per ASC 606, we consider this to be a customer/ vendor relationship; therefore, we will include the regulatory milestone payments in the total transaction price when it is probable that a significant reversal of revenue would not occur in a future period. We will recognize commercial milestone and royalty revenue at the later of (i) when the related sales occur or (ii) when the performance obligation to which the commercial milestone or royalty has been allocated has been satisfied. In case of commercial milestone or royalty payments, we will recognize revenue in the same period that the sales are completed for which we are contractually entitled to the milestone or percentage-based royalty payment. For the year 109 Table of Contents ended December 31, 2023, we have recognized $10.0 million of royalty revenue. Management periodically assesses the elements of the contract and re-evaluate revenue recognition as necessary. Pursuant to ASC 606, the $250.0 million non-refundable upfront payment is recognized as revenue as this is the amount allocated to the license. The $80.0 million reimbursement for research and development activities does not constitute a customer/vendor relationship and, thus, is not in the scope of ASC 606. As ASC 808 does not include recognition guidance we have established an accounting policy to recognize the payments under the reimbursement as a receivable on the balance sheet in an amount that is to be reimbursed based upon expense incurred by us, with a contra- research and development expense recognized in the statement of operations, over time as the expenses are incurred. See Note 12, License and Collaboration Agreements, included in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for more information related to the Sobi Collaboration and License Agreement. Cost of Research Collaboration Arrangement We analyze research collaboration arrangements pursuant to ASC 808 to assess whether such arrangements, or transactions between arrangement participants, involve joint operating activities performed by parties that are both active participants in the activities and exposed to significant risks and rewards dependent on the commercial success of such activities. If each party is actively participating in this activity and exposed to significant risks and rewards related to the activity, each party costs will be accounted for under ASC 808. Since ASC 808 does not provide recognition guidance, we refer to the guidance under ASC 730 to arrangements involving our payments to third parties. ASC 730 requires us to recognize research and developments costs as expense as incurred since there is no alternative use. See Note 12, License and Collaboration Agreements, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information. Inventory Inventory is recorded at the lower of cost or net realizable value, with cost determined on a first-in, first-out basis. Inventory costs include third-party contract manufacturing, third-party packaging services, and freight. We perform an assessment of the recoverability of capitalized inventory during each reporting period and write down any excess and obsolete inventories to their estimated realizable value in the period in which the impairment is first identified. Such impairment charges, should they occur, are recorded within cost of sales. The determination of whether inventory costs will be realizable requires estimates by management. If actual market conditions are less favorable than projected by management, additional write-downs of inventory may be required which would be recorded as a cost of sales in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Prior to regulatory approval of our product candidates, we expense costs associated with the manufacture of our product candidates to research and development expense unless we are reasonably certain such costs have future commercial use and net realizable value. When we believe regulatory approval and subsequent commercialization of our product candidates is probable, and we also expect future economic benefit from the sales of the product candidates to be realized, we will then capitalize the costs of production as inventory. Inventory that can be used in either the production of clinical or commercial product is expensed as research and development expense when selected for use in a clinical manufacturing campaign. Prior to receiving FDA approval for EMPAVELI and SYFOVRE the costs associated with the manufacturing of EMPAVELI and SYFOVRE inventory were expensed as incurred as research and development expense. As a result, the manufacturing costs related to the EMPAVELI and SYFOVRE inventory build-up incurred before FDA approval were already expensed in a prior period and are therefore excluded from the cost of goods sold. Shipping and handling costs for product shipments are recorded as incurred in cost of sales along with costs associated with manufacturing the product and any inventory write-downs. Accrued Research and Development Expenses As part of the process of preparing our financial statements, we are required to estimate our accrued expenses. This process involves reviewing quotations and contracts, identifying services that have been performed on our behalf and estimating the level of service performed and the associated cost incurred for the service when we have not yet been invoiced or otherwise notified of the actual cost. The majority of our service providers invoice us monthly in arrears for services performed or when contractual milestones are met. We make estimates of our accrued expenses as of each balance sheet date in our financial statements based on facts and circumstances known to us at that time. We periodically confirm the accuracy of our estimates with the service providers and make adjustments if necessary. The significant estimates in our accrued research and development expenses include the costs incurred for 110 Table of Contents services performed by CROs and contract manufacturing organizations, or CMOs, in connection with research and development activities for which we have not yet been invoiced. We base our expenses related to CROs and CMOs on our estimates of the services received and efforts expended pursuant to quotes and contracts with CROs and CMOs. The financial terms of these agreements are subject to negotiation, vary from contract to contract and may result in uneven payment flows. There may be instances in which payments made to our CROs and CMOs will exceed the level of services provided and result in a prepayment of the research and development expense. In accruing service fees, we estimate the time period over which services will be performed and the level of effort to be expended in each period. If the actual timing of the performance of services or the level of effort varies from our estimate, we adjust the accrual or prepaid expense accordingly. Although we do not expect our estimates to be materially different from amounts actually incurred, if our estimates of the status and timing of services performed differ from the actual status and timing of services performed, it could result in us reporting expense amounts that are too high or too low in any particular period. To date, there have been no material differences between our estimates of such expenses and the amounts actually incurred. Convertible Notes On September 16, 2019, we completed a private offering of the 2019 Convertible Notes with an aggregate principal amount of $220.0 million. On May 12, 2020, we issued the 2020 Convertible Notes with an aggregate principal amount of $300.0 million. The Convertible Notes are convertible into shares of our common stock at an initial conversion rate of 25.3405 shares per $1,000 principal amount of the Convertible Notes, equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $39.4625 per share of common stock. The conversion rate is subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments. In addition, following certain events that occur prior to the maturity date or if we deliver a notice of redemption, we are required to increase the conversion rate for a holder who elects to convert its notes in connection with such corporate event or a notice of redemption, as the case may be, in certain circumstances as provided in the Indenture. The Convertible Notes are subject to redemption at our option, as of September 20, 2023, if certain conditions are met. The redemption price is equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the redemption date. In January 2021, July 2021 and July 2022, we entered into separate, privately negotiated exchange agreements to modify the conversion terms with certain holders of the 2019 Convertible Notes and 2020 Convertible Notes. Under the terms of these exchange agreements, in January 2021, July 2021 and July 2022, the holders exchanged approximately $126.1 million of 2019 Convertible Notes, $201.1 million of 2019 Convertible Notes and 2020 Convertible Notes, and $98.1 million of 2020 Convertible Notes, respectively, in aggregate principal amount held by them for an aggregate of 3,906,869 shares, 5,992,217 shares and 3,027,018 shares, respectively, of common stock issued by us. In accordance with ASC 470-20 we accounted for the exchange as an induced conversion based on the short period of time the conversion offer was open and the substantive conversion feature offer. We accounted for the conversion of the debt as an inducement by expensing the fair value of the shares that were issued in excess of the original terms of the Convertible Notes. As a result of the January 2021 exchange transactions, we reduced net debt outstanding and increased net equity on the consolidated balance sheet by $122.8 million, consisting of the par value of the 2019 Convertible Notes exchanged of $126.1 million less the $3.3 million of remaining debt issuance costs associated with the exchanged notes. We also increased shares outstanding by 3,906,869 shares consisting of 3,196,172 shares issued at the initial conversion rate in the Indenture of 25.3405 plus an additional 710,697 shares. Additionally, we issued 69,491 shares as settlement of debt issuance costs paid to our financial advisor in connection with the exchange transaction. Asa result of the July 2021 exchange transactions, we reduced net debt outstanding and increased net equity on the consolidated balance sheet by $197.0 million, consisting of the par value of the Convertible Notes exchanged of $201.1 million less the $4.1 million of remaining debt issuance costs associated with the exchanged notes. We also increased shares outstanding by 5,992,217 shares consisting of 5,097,166 shares issued at the initial conversion rate in the Indenture of 25.3405 plus an additional 895,051 shares. Additionally, we issued 78,419 shares as settlement of issuance costs paid to our financial advisor in connection with the exchange transaction. As a result of the July 2022 exchange transactions, we reduced net debt outstanding and increased net equity on the consolidated balance sheet by $96.8 million, consisting of the par value of the Convertible Notes exchanged of $98.1 million less the $1.3 million of remaining debt issuance costs associated with the exchanged notes. We also increased shares outstanding by 3,027,018 shares consisting of 2,485,548 shares issued at the initial conversion rate in the Indenture of 25.3405 plus an additional 541,470 shares. Additionally, we issued 46,132 shares as settlement of issuance costs paid to our financial advisor in connection with the exchange transaction. The conditional conversion feature of the Convertible Notes was triggered as of June 30, 2021, and as a result the Convertible Notes were convertible at the option of the holders until September 30, 2021. During this period, certain holders of the Convertible 111 Table of Contents Notes converted approximately $0.7 million of aggregate principal amount of Convertible Notes into an aggregate of 18,775 shares, which were issued in October 2021. The conditional conversion feature of the Convertible Notes was triggered as of December 31, 2023, and as a result the Convertible Notes are convertible at the option of the holders until March 31, 2024. As of December 31 2023, we held $425.4 million principal of exchanged notes in treasury and such notes have not been cancelled. Approximately $93.9 million principal amount of Convertible Notes was outstanding and held by third parties as of December 31, 2023. Capped Call Transactions On September 11, 2019, and May 6, 2020, concurrently with the pricing of the 2019 Convertible Notes and 2020 Convertible Notes, respectively , we entered into capped call transactions with two counterparties. The capped call transactions are expected generally to reduce the potential dilution to our common stock upon any conversion of notes and/or offset any cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes , as the case may be, in the event that the market price per share of our common stock, as measured under the terms of the capped call transactions, is greater than the strike price of the capped call transactions, which is initially $39.4625 (the conversion price of the Convertible Notes ) and is subject to anti-dilution adjustments substantially similar to those applicable to the conversion rate of such notes. If, however, the market price per share of our common stock, as measured under the terms of the capped call transactions, exceeds the cap price of the capped call transactions, which is initially $63.14 per share, there would nevertheless be dilution and/or there would not be an offset of such potential cash payments, in each case, to the extent that such market price exceeds the cap price of the capped call transactions. Development Liability On May 14, 2021, we obtained regulatory approval of EMPAVELI in the United States from the FDA. On December 15, 2021, we obtained regulatory approval in the European Union from the EMA. Following the FDA and EMA approvals, we are obligated to make payments following pre-determined fixed payment schedules as set forth in the SFJ agreement and SFJ amendment to pay SFJ the initial and subsequent annual payments totaling $456.0 million as of December 31, 2021 (excluding the $4.0 million initial payment for FDA approval made in June 2021) with the initial payment for EMA approval of $5.0 million due January 2022, which we paid in January 2022, and final annual payment due December 2027. From December 15, 2021 and thereafter until the final annual payment is due in December 2027, the development liability will be accreted from its initial carrying amount to the total payment amount using the effective interest rate method under ASC 835 over the remaining life of the SFJ agreement. The difference between the carrying amount and the total payment amount is presented as discount to the development liability. The accretion is recorded as interest expense in the consolidated income statement. 112 Table of Contents Results of Operations Comparison of Years Ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 The following table summarizes our results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, together with the dollar increase or decrease and percentage change in those items: Year Ended December 31, Change Change (in thousands) 2023 2022 $ % Revenue: Product Revenue, net $ 366,281 $ 65,092 301,189 463 % Licensing and other revenue 30,310 10,330 19,980 193 % Total revenue: 396,591 75,422 321,169 426 % Operating expenses: Cost of sales 58,510 5,636 52,874 938 % Research and development 354,387 387,236 (32,849 ) (8 %) General and administrative 500,815 277,163 223,652 81 % Total operating expenses 913,712 670,035 243,677 36 % Net operating loss (517,121 ) (594,613 ) 77,492 (13 %) Loss on conversion of debt (32,890 ) 32,890 (100 %) Interest income 20,933 8,914 12,019 135 % Interest expense (29,581 ) (32,626 ) 3,045 (9 %) Other (expense)/ income, net (727 ) (288 ) (439 ) 152 % Net loss before taxes (526,496 ) (651,503 ) 125,007 (19 %) Income tax expense 2,132 669 1,463 219 % Net loss $ (528,628 ) $ (652,172 ) $ 123,544 (19 %) Product Revenue, Net Our product revenue, net is derived from sales of EMPAVELI and SYFOVRE sales in the United States. We recognized $366.3 million and $65.1 million of net product revenue as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The net product revenue of $366.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, consists of $91.0 million in net product revenue from sales of EMPAVELI and $275.2 million in net product revenue from sales of SYFOVRE. The net product revenue of $65.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 consisted solely of net product revenue from sales of EMPAVELI. SYFOVRE was approved by the FDA in February 2023 and we did not record any net product revenue from sales of SYFOVRE in the year ended December 31, 2022. Licensing and Other Revenue Licensing and other revenue was $30.3 million and $10.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Licensing and other revenue of $30.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 consisted of $10.0 million in revenue from product supplied to Sobi, $15.3 million in royalty revenue from Sobi and $5.0 million from collaboration with Sobi. Licensing and other revenue of $10.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 consisted of $7.3 million in revenue from product supplied to Sobi and $3.0 million in royalty revenue from Sobi. Cost of Sales Cost of sales was $58.5 million and $5.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The increase in cost of sales was primarily driven by a $22.9 million increase due to increased product volume from commercial sales and product provided under our patient assistance programs, a $7.0 million increase from cost of supply provided under the Sobi collaboration agreement, a $11.2 million increase in royalty expense, a $6.5 million increase due to the achievement of various sales-based milestones, a $0.5 million increase due to a sublicense fee, and a $4.9 million increase in expenses incurred related to excess or obsolete inventory. In addition, prior to receiving FDA approval for EMPAVELI on May 14, 2021, the costs associated with the manufacture of EMPAVELI inventory were expensed as incurred as research and development expense. This resulted in inventory being sold during the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 for which a portion of the costs had been previously expensed prior to FDA approval. We expect this to continue to impact the cost of sales as the remaining pre-FDA inventory is sold to customers. As of December 31, 2023, the remaining pre-FDA approved inventory was $19.4 million, which primarily consisted of raw materials. 113 Table of Contents Research and Development Expenses The following table summarizes our research and development expenses incurred during the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, together with the dollar increase or decrease and percentage change in those items: (In thousands) Year Ended December 31, Change Change 2023 2022 $ % Program-specific external costs: PNH $ 19,504 $ 22,954 (3,450 ) (15 %) IC-MPGN & C3G 36,160 20,872 15,288 73 % ALS 9,378 16,876 (7,498 ) (44 %) CAD 7,115 11,159 (4,044 ) (36 %) HSCT-TMA 2,842 3,314 (472 ) (14 %) GA 52,078 82,325 (30,247 ) (37 %) Other development and discovery programs 52,733 42,069 10,664 25 % Total program-specific costs 179,810 199,569 (19,759 ) (10 %) Unallocated external costs Non-program specific external costs 7,002 29,089 (22,087 ) (76 %) Total unallocated external costs 7,002 29,089 (22,087 ) (76 %) Unallocated internal costs Compensation and related personnel costs 162,515 154,504 8,011 5 % Other expenses 5,060 4,074 986 24 % Total unallocated internal costs 167,575 158,578 8,997 6 % Total research and development costs 354,387 387,236 (32,849 ) (8 %) Research and development expenses decreased by $32.8 million to $354.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 from $387.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, a decrease of 8%. The decrease in research and development expenses was primarily attributable to a $19.8 million decrease in program specific external costs and a $22.1 million decrease in non-program specific external costs, which were partially offset by a $8.0 million increase in compensation and related personnel costs and $1.0 million increase in other internal costs. The decrease in our program-specific external costs of $19.8 million largely reflects reduced GA costs as a result of the impact of the approval of SYFOVRE in February 2023 and the discontinuation of the Phase 2 MERIDIAN study for ALS. These decreases were partially offset by increases in study costs consistent with the progression of our Phase 2 NOBLE trial and Phase 3 VALIANT trial for IC-MPGN and C3G as well as increases in other development and discovery programs. The increase in compensation and related personnel costs was driven by a $5.2 million increase in salaries and benefits due to higher headcount compared to the prior year, a $1.9 million increase in severance costs related to the reduction in workforce announced in August 2023 and a $0.9 million increase in stock compensation expense associated with the grant of stock options and restricted stock units to employees. Other internal costs increased due to a $1.0 million increase in travel related expenses. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses increased by $223.6 million to $500.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, from $277.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, an increase of 81%. The increase was primarily attributable to an increase in employee related costs of $84.4 million, an increase in commercialization related activity of $123.2 million, an increase in professional and consulting fees of $3.2 million, an increase in travel related expenses of $5.0 million and higher office costs of $8.2 million. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in other expenses of $0.4 million. The increase in employee related costs of $84.4 million consisted of $66.8 million increase in salaries and benefits primarily due to commercialization activities to support the launch of SYFOVRE, an increase in termination costs of $5.1 million due to workforce reduction, and an increase of $14.2 million related to stock compensation expense associated with the grant of stock options and restricted stock units to employees, partially offset by a decrease in recruiting expenses of $1.7 million. Loss on Conversion of Debt Loss on conversion of debt was $32.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. See Note 8, Long-term Debt in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for additional details regarding the conversion of debt. 114 Table of Contents Interest Income Interest income was $20.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, an increase of $12.0 million, compared to $8.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase in interest income was primarily attributable to increased interest rates during the year ended December 31, 2023. Interest Expense Interest expense was $29.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, a decrease of $3.0 million, compared to $32.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The decrease is primarily due to the lower outstanding principal amount of our convertible notes during the year ended December 31, 2023. Other (Expense)/ Income, Net Other expense was $0.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to other expense of $0.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase was primarily due to foreign currency revaluation losses. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense was $2.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to $0.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase is primarily due to an expansion in state tax jurisdictions. Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 A discussion of changes in our results of operations during the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 has been omitted from this Annual Report on Form 10-K but may be found in Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, filed with the SEC on February 21, 2023, which discussion is incorporated herein by reference, and which is available free of charge on the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity To date, we have financed our operations primarily through $1.9 billion in net proceeds from public offerings of our common stock and pre-funded warrants to purchase common stock, $535.8 million in net proceeds from offerings of Convertible Notes, a $250.0 million up-front payment and a $65.0 million development reimbursement payments from Sobi pursuant to the Sobi collaboration agreement, $112.6 million in proceeds from the private placement of shares of our convertible preferred stock prior to our IPO, $140.0 million under the SFJ agreement, $20.0 million in proceeds from borrowings under a term loan facility with Silicon Valley Bank, and $7.0 million in proceeds from our issuance and sale of a promissory note. We have repaid the term loan facility and the promissory note in full, and we exchanged $425.4 million of aggregate principal amount of our Convertible Notes for shares of our common stock. In November 2023, we entered into a sales agreement, or the sales agreement, with Cowen and Company, LLC, or Cowen, as agent, pursuant to which the Company may offer and sell shares of our common stock having an aggregate offering from of up to $300.0 million from time to time. Any sales made under the sales agreement will be made at market prices by any method that is deemed to be an at the market offering as defined in Rule 415(a)(4) promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933. Any sales under the Sales Agreement will be made pursuant to our registration statement on Form S-3, which became effective on February 22, 2023. We agreed to pay Cowen compensation of up to 3.0% of the gross proceeds of the sale of shares made under the sales agreement. We did not make any sales under the sales agreement during the year ended December 31, 2023. In February 2023, we issued and sold 4,007,936 shares of our common stock and, in lieu of common stock to investors who so chose, pre-funded warrants to purchase 2,380,956 shares of our common stock in a follow-on offering, including 833,333 shares sold pursuant to the underwriters exercise in full of their option to purchase additional shares of common stock. The price to the public of the shares of common stock was $63.00 per share and the price to the public of the pre-funded warrants was $62.9999 per pre-funded warrant. The pre-funded warrants have an exercise price equal to $0.0001 per share and do not expire. The pre-funded warrants were accounted for as equity instruments. We received total net proceeds of $384.4 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions of $18.8 million and offering cost of $0.3 million. On March 28, 2022, the Company issued and sold 8,563,830 shares of its common stock at a price per share to the public of $47.00 in a follow-on public offering including an additional 1,117,021 shares of its common stock that were sold at the follow-on 115 Table of Contents public offering price of $47.00 per share pursuant to the underwriters agreement in full exercise of their option to purchase additional shares of common stock. The Company received net proceeds of approximately $380.1 million after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions of approximately $22.1 million and offering costs of $0.3 million for these transactions. We expect to enter into agreements with the capped call counterparties to unwind a portion of the capped call transactions on February 27, 2024. The unwind agreements will apply to the portion of the capped call transactions in a notional amount corresponding to the $426.1 million principal amount of Convertible Notes that we held in treasury as of December 31, 2023 or have been previously converted. We expect that aggregate cash proceeds to us from the unwind transactions will be approximately $100 million. The unwind transactions will be settled based on the volume-weighted average price of our common stock over a 7-day averaging period beginning on and including February 27, 2024, and the amount of cash proceeds that we receive at the end of the averaging period may be higher or lower than the expected amount. In connection with the unwind, the counterparties may sell shares of our common stock in secondary market transactions, and/or unwind various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock. Cash Flows The following table provides information regarding our cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022: (in thousands) Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 Net cash used in operating activities $ (594,735 ) $ (513,745 ) Net cash (used in) /provided by investing activities (674 ) 59,893 Net cash provided by financing activities 394,499 365,659 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 135 (488 ) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (200,775 ) $ (88,681 ) Net Cash Used in Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities was $594.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 and consisted primarily of a net loss of $528.6 million adjusted for $134.1 million of non-cash items, including share-based compensation expense of $105.9 million, depreciation expense of $1.8 million, accretion of discount to the development liability of $26.0 million and accretion of discounts for convertible debt of $0.3 million. Further, it included a net increase in operating assets of $200.2 million, which was driven by increases in accounts receivable of $198.7 million, an increase in inventory of $60.6 million, and an increase in prepaid assets of $1.9 million, which was partially offset by an increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses of $35.1 million and a decrease in other assets of $25.9 million. Net cash used in operating activities was $513.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 and consisted primarily of a net loss of $652.2 million adjusted for $154.1 million of non-cash items, including share-based compensation expense of $91.1 million, a loss on early exchange of debt of $32.9 million, the forfeiture of accrued interest in the exchange of the Convertible Notes of $1.3 million, depreciation expense of $1.6 million, amortization of discounts for convertible notes, net of financing costs of $0.3 million, and accretion of discount to the development liability of $26.9 million. Further, it included a net decrease in operating assets of $28.1 million and an increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses of $12.3 million. Net Cash (Used in) Provided by Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities during the year ended December 31, 2023 was $0.7 million due primarily to purchases of fixed assets and partially offset by proceeds from the sale of fixed assets. Net cash provided by investing activities during the year ended December 31, 2022 was $59.9 million due primarily to $393.2 million in proceeds from maturities of marketable securities, partially offset by $331.9 million in purchases of marketable securities. Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $394.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2023 and consisted primarily of proceeds from the follow-on common stock and pre-funded warrant offering in March 2023 of $384.4 million, $71.3 million proceeds upon the exercise of stock options and $5.4 million proceeds from the issuance of our common stock under the employee stock purchase plan, partially offset by payments of $55.5 million for the development liability as well as the payments of employee tax withholding related to equity-based compensation of $11.0 million. 116 Table of Contents Net cash provided by financing activities was $365.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2022 and consisted primarily of proceeds from the follow-on common stock offering in March 2022 of $380.1 million, $21.5 million of proceeds upon the exercise of stock options and $4.2 million proceeds from the issuance of common stock under the employee stock purchase plan, partially offset by payments of $34.5 million for the development liability as well as $5.7 million for the payments of employee tax withholdings related to equity-based compensation. Funding Requirements We expect to continue incur expenses to support our ongoing commercial activities related to product manufacturing, marketing, sales and distribution of EMPAVELI for PNH and SYFOVRE for GA. In addition, we expect to continue to incur expenses as we prioritize the ongoing development of systemic pegcetacoplan and focus our research initiatives on high potential opportunities. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2023 and the cash that we anticipate generating from the unwind of the capped call transactions, together with the cash that we anticipate will be generated from sales of EMPAVELI and SYFOVRE will be sufficient to fund our projected operating expenses and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months, as well as our anticipated longer-term cash requirements and obligations. Our expectations regarding our short-term and long-term funding requirements are based on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and we may need additional capital resources to fund our operating plans and capital expenditure requirements. We are devoting substantial resources to the commercial infrastructure for SYFOVRE for GA. We are also devoting substantial resources to the development of our product candidates. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with the commercialization of EMPAVELI and SYFOVRE and development of other product candidates, and because the extent to which we may enter into collaborations with third parties for any of these activities is unknown, we are unable to estimate the amounts of increased capital outlays and operating expenses associated with the research, development and commercialization. Our future funding requirements and long-term capital requirements will depend on many factors, including : our ability to successfully commercialize and sell EMPAVELI and SYFOVRE in the United States; the cost of and our ability to obtain regulatory approvals of SYFOVRE outside of the United States and to build a commercial infrastructure for SYFOVRE for GA in the United States and worldwide; the cost of and our ability to effectively establish and maintain, the commercial infrastructure and manufacturing capabilities required to support the commercialization of EMPAVELI, systemic pegcetacoplan and SYFOVRE and any other products for which we receive marketing approval including product sales, medical affairs, marketing, manufacturing and distribution; the scope, progress, timing, costs and results of clinical trials of, and research and preclinical development efforts for systemic pegcetacoplan, SYFOVRE and our other product candidates; our ability to maintain a productive collaborative relationship with Sobi with respect to systemic pegcetacoplan, including our ability to achieve milestone payments under our agreement with Sobi; our ability to identify additional collaborators for any of our product candidates and the terms and timing of any collaboration agreement that we may establish for the development and any commercialization of such product candidates; the number and characteristics of future product candidates that we pursue and their development requirements; the outcome, timing and costs of clinical trials and of seeking regulatory approvals of pegcetacoplan in other jurisdictions and indications and other product candidates we may pursue; the costs of commercialization activities for any of our product candidates that receive marketing approval to the extent such costs are not the responsibility of any collaborators, including the costs and timing of establishing product sales, marketing, distribution and manufacturing capabilities; subject to receipt of marketing approval, revenue, if any, received from commercial sales of pegcetacoplan in other jurisdictions and indications and our other product candidates; our headcount growth and associated costs as we expand our research and development and establish a commercial infrastructure; the costs of preparing, filing and prosecuting patent applications, maintaining and protecting our intellectual property rights and defending against intellectual property related claims; the effect of competing technological and market developments; 117 Table of Contents the effect of public health crises, including pandemics and epidemics, on the healthcare system and the economy generally and on our clinical trials and other operations specifically; our ability to obtain adequate reimbursement for EMPAVELI and SYFOVRE in the United States or any other product we commercialize; and the costs of operating as a public company. If our cash and cash equivalents, cash generated from the unwind of the capped call transactions, and cash generated from sales of EMPAVELI and SYFOVRE are not sufficient to fund our planned expenditures, we will need to finance our cash needs through external sources of funds, which may include equity offerings, debt financings, collaborations, strategic alliances or licensing arrangements. We currently do not have any committed external source of funds. If we are unable to generate sufficient funds from unwinding the capped call transactions and sales of EMPAVELI and SYFOVRE, or raise additional funds when needed, we may be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our product development or future commercialization efforts or grant rights to develop and market product candidates that we would otherwise prefer to develop and market ourselves. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations as of payment due date by period at December 31, 2023: Payments Due by Period (In thousands) Less than More than Total 1 Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years 5 Years SFJ agreement $ 366,000 $ 98,750 $ 212,000 $ 55,250 $ Convertible notes (1) 102,797 3,286 99,511 Non-cancellable purchase commitments (2) 110,677 107,877 800 2,000 Operating leases (3) 19,789 7,393 11,537 859 Total $ 599,263 $ 217,306 $ 323,848 $ 58,109 $ (1) Amounts include interest on long-term debt obligations under the debt outstanding as of December 31, 2023, applying contractual fixed interest rate and assuming scheduled payments are paid as contractually required through maturity. (2) Amounts include our obligations under supply agreements with Bachem and NOF as of December 31, 2023 and obligations under supply agreements with other vendors. (3) Represents future minimum lease payments under our non-cancelable operating leases. The minimum lease payments above do not include any related common area maintenance charges or real estate taxes. Under the SFJ agreement, following regulatory approval by the FDA in May 2021 for the use of systemic pegcetacoplan as a treatment for PNH, we became obligated to pay SFJ an initial payment of $4.0 million and then an additional $226.0 million in the aggregate in six additional annual payments with the majority of the payments being made from the third anniversary to the sixth anniversary of regulatory approval. We paid SFJ the initial payment of $4.0 million in June 2021, its first annual payment of $11.5 million in May 2022 and the second annual payment of $24.5 million in May 2023. The subsequent annual payments remaining are due and payable in May of each year from 2024 through 2027. Following regulatory approval of systemic pegcetacoplan by the EMA in December 2021, we became obligated to pay SFJ an initial payment of $5.0 million and then an additional $225.0 million in the aggregate in six additional annual payments with the majority of the payments being made from the third anniversary to the sixth anniversary of regulatory approval. We paid SFJ the initial payment of $5.0 million in January 2022 the first annual payment of $18.0 million in December 2022, and its second annual payment of $31.0 million in December 2023. The subsequent annual payments are due and payable in December of each year from 2024 through 2027. We have paid SFJ a total of $94.0 million as of December 31, 2023 and we are obligated to pay an aggregate of $366.0 million through 2027. We have entered into contracts to conduct research and development activities with third parties which commit us to pay future milestone payments or to pay royalty fees if any of the research results in regulatory approval or commercial revenue for a product. The scope of the services under the research and development contracts can be modified and the contracts cancelled by us upon 118 Table of Contents written notice. In some instances, the contracts may be cancelled by the third party upon written notice. If we were to cancel these contracts, we would be required only to pay for activities incurred through termination date. We are a party to a license agreement with Penn for an exclusive, worldwide license to specified patent rights in the ophthalmic field of use. We are required to pay annual maintenance fees of $0.1 million until the first sale of a licensed product. We are also required to make milestone payments aggregating up to $3.2 million based upon the achievement of specified development and regulatory milestones and up to $5.0 million based upon the achievement of specified annual sales milestones with respect to each licensed product, and to pay low single-digit royalties based on net sales of each licensed product and with minimum quarterly royalty thresholds. In addition, we are obligated to pay a specified portion of income it receives from sublicensees. In April 2023, we paid $2.3 million for the achievement of a regulatory milestone as a result of the FDA approval of SYFOVRE in February 2023. In 2023, we incurred $5.0 million as a result of the achievement of sales milestones for SYFOVRE of which $2.0 million was paid in October 2023 and the remainder of $3.0 million was accrued for as of December 31, 2023. As of December 31, 2023, we have incurred an aggregate royalty expense of $8.9 million as a result of sales of SYFOVRE. In addition, we are also party to a license agreement with Penn for an exclusive, worldwide license to specified patent rights for the development and commercialization of products in nonophthalmic fields of use, as defined therein. We are required to pay annual maintenance fees of $0.1 million until the first sale of a licensed product. We are required to make milestone payments aggregating up to $1.7 million, based upon the achievement of development and regulatory approval milestones, and up to $2.5 million, based upon the achievement of annual sales milestones with respect to each of the first two licensed products. The license agreement also requires us to pay low single digit royalties based on net sales of each licensed product, subject to minimum quarterly royalty thresholds. In addition, we are obligated to pay a specified portion of income we receive from sublicensees. In January 2021, we paid $25.0 million for a sublicense fee owed to Penn related to the Sobi collaboration agreement and another licensing transaction. In August 2021, we paid $1.0 million to Penn upon the achievement of a development milestone, net of a credit for the annual license maintenance payment. In June 2022, we paid an additional $5.0 million to Penn upon the achievement of a development milestone. In January 2023, we paid $1.0 million to Penn upon the achievement of a sales milestone for EMPAVELI in 2022. As of December 31, 2023, we recorded in accrued expenses $0.5 million for a sublicense fee owed to Penn related to Sobi obtaining regulatory approval in Japan. Additionally, as of December 31, 2023, we recorded in accrued expenses $1.5 million as a result of the achievement of a sales milestone for EMPAVELI and Aspaveli. We enter into agreements in the normal course of business with CROs for clinical trials and clinical supply manufacturing and with vendors for preclinical research studies and other services and products for operating purposes. We have not included these payments in the table of contractual obligations above since either the contracts are cancelable at any time by us, generally upon 30 days prior written notice to the CRO, or the noncancelable minimum purchase commitments under such contracts have already been satisfied. We have certain non-cancelable purchase obligations related to the manufacturing of drug substance and drug product, with Bachem, agreeing to purchase a significant portion of our requirements for the pegcetacoplan drug substance over the next five years and a commercial supply agreement with NOF Corporation, or NOF, to purchase activated polyethylene glycol derivative, or PEG, which is a component of pegcetacoplan. Under these agreements, as of December 31, 2023 we are obligated to pay up to an aggregate of $94.6 million to these vendors. In addition, we have other non-cancelable purchase agreements as of December 31, 2023, under which we are obligated to pay up to an aggregate of $16.1 million to other vendors. 
