CIK: 1677703
Company Name: CONDUENT INC
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2020-02-27
Accession Number: 0001677703-20-000010


ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following Management Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) is intended to help the reader understand the results of operations and financial condition of Conduent Incorporated. This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes in this Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019. This MD&A provides additional information about our operations, current developments, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Throughout the MD&A, we refer to various notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements which appear in Item 8 of this Form 10-K, and the information contained in such notes is incorporated by reference into the MD&A in the places where such references are made. Overview With revenues of $4.5 billion, we are a leading provider of business process services with expertise in transaction-intensive processing, analytics and automation. We serve as a trusted business partner in both the front office and back office, enabling personalized, seamless interactions on a massive scale that improve end-user experience. Headquartered in Florham Park, New Jersey, we have a team of approximately 67,000 people as of December 31, 2019, servicing customers from service centers in 23 countries. In 2019, 10% of our revenue was generated outside the U.S. Our reportable segments correspond to how we organize and manage the business and are aligned to the industries in which our clients operate. We organize and manage our businesses through three reportable segments, Other operations and Shared IT / Infrastructure & Corporate Costs. Commercial Industries Our Commercial Industries segment provides business process services and customized solutions to clients in a variety of industries. Across the Commercial Industries segment, we operate on our clients behalf to deliver mission-critical solutions and services to reduce costs, improve efficiencies and enable revenue growth for our clients and their consumers and employees. Government Services Our Government Services segment provides government-centric business process services to U.S. federal, state and local and foreign governments for public assistance, program administration, transaction processing and payment services. Our solutions in this segment help governments respond to changing rules for eligibility and increasing citizen expectations. Transportation Our Transportation segment provides systems and support, as well as revenue-generating services, to government clients. On behalf of government agencies and authorities in the transportation industry, we deliver mission-critical mobility and payment solutions that improve automation, interoperability and decision-making to streamline operations, increase revenue and reduce congestion while creating safer communities and seamless travel experiences for consumers. Other operations include our divestitures, our Student Loan business, which the Company exited in the third quarter of 2018. Shared IT / Infrastructure & Corporate Costs includes both normal ongoing IT infrastructure costs and costs related to modernization of a significant portion of our infrastructure with new systems and processes and consolidation of our data centers as part of our transformation initiatives. It also includes costs related to corporate overhead functions and shared real estate costs. These costs are not allocated to the reportable segments. We expect that our transformation initiatives will provide greater strategic and operational flexibility and efficiency and better control of our systems and processes. There is a risk, however, that our efforts, plans and transactions related to our strategic and operational review, as well as our modernization efforts and data center consolidations could materially and adversely disrupt our operations. Refer to Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors of this Form 10-K for additional information. CNDT 2019 Annual Report 30 Table of Contents Significant 2019 Actions Business Acquisition In January 2019, we acquired Health Solution Plus, a software provider of healthcare payer administration solutions for a total base consideration of $90 million. This acquisition is part of the Commercial Industries segment. Refer to Note 5 Business Acquisition to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding this acquisition. Disposition In February 2019, we completed the sale of a portfolio of select standalone customer care contracts for $25 million. The business sold represented $36 million and $439 million of revenues in 2019 and 2018, respectively. Refer to Note 4 Divestiture to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding this sale. Litigation Settlement In February 2019, we reached a settlement agreement and release with the State of Texas ("State") and the Texas Department of Health and Human Services, which was amended in May 2019 ("Texas Agreement"). Pursuant to the terms of the Texas Agreement, the Company was required to pay the State $236 million, of which $118 million was paid in 2019 and the remaining $118 million paid in January 2020. Refer to Note 16 Contingencies and Litigation to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding this litigation settlement. Goodwill Impairment During the first quarter of 2019, we recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $ 284 million related to our Transportation reporting unit. Also, during the second quarter of 2019, we performed an interim goodwill impairment assessment for all reporting units and recognized a total pre-tax impairment charge of $ 1.1 billion. No impairment was identified during our annual impairment test performed as of October 1, 2019. Subsequent to completing the annual impairment test, the Company experienced further unanticipated contract losses within the Government Services reporting unit, and as result, management performed a goodwill impairment assessment for this reporting unit as of December 31, 2019 which resulted in a pre-tax impairment charge of $512 million. In addition, in the fourth quarter we recorded an immaterial correction to the impairment charges recorded in the first and second quarters to properly reflect the impact of tax deductible goodwill on the previous impairments as well as the related income tax benefit. The impairment adjustment and related income tax benefit to the first quarter charge for the Transportation reporting unit totaled $20 million and $1 million, respectively. The impairment adjustment and related income tax benefit to the second quarter charge totaled $69 million and $6 million, respectively. The second quarter impairment and income tax benefit adjustments corrected the combined Commercial Industries reporting units by $53 million and $5 million, respectively, and the Government Services reporting unit by $16 million and $1 million, respectively. We believe these adjustments are not material to the current period or any prior period. The cumulative impairment charge for the year ended December 31, 2019 was approximately $2.0 billion. Refer to Note 8 Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net to the Consolidated Financial Statements and MD&A Critical Accounting Policies Goodwill for additional information regarding the goodwill impairment assessment and resulting charges. Significant 2018 Actions Loan Redemption In July 2018, we redeemed $476 million of our $510 million Senior Notes due 2024 at a premium of $95 million. Refer to Note 11 Debt to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding this redemption. Dispositions In 2018, we completed divestitures of: (1) our Commercial Vehicle Operations business; (2) our off-street parking business; (3) our U.S. human resource consulting and actuarial business and the human resource consulting and outsourcing business located in Canada and the United Kingdom; and (4) our local and municipal constituent government software solutions business. The aggregate proceeds for these divestitures was $703 million in cash. The businesses sold represented $304 million and $500 million of 2018 and 2017 revenue, respectively. We recorded a pre-tax gain of $78 million on these divestitures for the year ended December 31, 2018. CNDT 2019 Annual Report 31 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) requires us to make estimates and assumptions in certain circumstances that affect amounts reported in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto. In preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements, we have made our best estimates and judgments of certain amounts included in the Consolidated Financial Statements giving due consideration to materiality. However, application of these accounting policies involves the exercise of judgment and use of assumptions as to future uncertainties and, as a result, actual results could differ from these estimates. Senior management has discussed the development and selection of the critical accounting policies, estimates and related disclosures included herein with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. We consider these as critical to understanding our Consolidated Financial Statements, as their application places the most significant demands on management's judgment, since financial reporting results rely on estimates of the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain. In instances where different estimates could have reasonably been used, we disclose the impact of these different estimates on our operations. In certain instances, the accounting rules are prescriptive; therefore, it would not have been possible to reasonably use different estimates. Changes in assumptions and estimates are reflected in the period in which they occur. The impact of such changes could be material to our results of operations and financial condition in any quarterly or annual period. Specific risks associated with these critical accounting policies are discussed throughout the MD&A, where such policies affect our reported and expected financial results. For a detailed discussion of the application of these and other accounting policies, refer to Note 1 Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Leases The Company determines if an arrangement is a lease at the inception of the contract and whether that lease meets the classification criteria of a finance or operating lease. The Company accounts for lease and non-lease components separately for its equipment leases, based on the estimated standalone price of each component, and combines lease and non-lease components for its real estate leases. The Company's leases generally do not provide an implicit rate, therefore the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate as the discount rate when measuring operating lease liabilities. The incremental borrowing rate represents an estimate of the interest rate the Company would incur at lease commencement to borrow an amount equal to the lease payments on a collateralized basis over the term of a lease within a particular currency environment. Refer to Note 1 Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies for additional information regarding our lease accounting policies. Revenue Recognition Application of the accounting principles in U.S. GAAP related to the measurement and recognition of revenue requires us to make judgments and estimates. Complex arrangements with nonstandard terms and conditions may require significant contract interpretation to determine the appropriate accounting. Refer to Note 1 Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 2 Revenue to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our revenue recognition policies. Held for Sale We classify assets as held for sale in the period when the following conditions are met: (i) management, having the authority to approve the action, commits to a plan to sell the asset (disposal group); (ii) the asset (disposal group) is available for immediate sale in its present condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary for sales of such assets (disposal group); (iii) an active program to locate a buyer and other actions required to complete the plan to sell the asset (disposal group) have been initiated; (iv) the sale of the asset (disposal group) is probable, and transfer of the asset (disposal group) is expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year, except if events or circumstances beyond our control extend the period of time required to sell the asset (disposal group) beyond one year; (v) the asset (disposal group) is being actively marketed for sale at a price that is reasonable in relation to its current fair value; and (vi) actions required to complete the plan indicate that it is unlikely that significant changes to the plan will be made or that the plan will be withdrawn. CNDT 2019 Annual Report 32 Table of Contents A long-lived asset (disposal group) that is classified as held for sale is initially measured at the lower of its carrying value or fair value less any costs to sell. Any loss resulting from this measurement is recognized in the period in which the held for sale criteria are met. Conversely, gains are not recognized on the sale of a long-lived asset (disposal group) until the date of sale. The fair value of a long-lived asset (disposal group) less any costs to sell is assessed each reporting period it remains classified as held for sale and any subsequent changes are reported as an adjustment to the carrying value of the asset (disposal group), as long as the new carrying value does not exceed the carrying value of the asset at the time it was initially classified as held for sale. Upon determining that a long-lived asset (disposal group) meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale, the Company reports the assets and liabilities of the disposal group in the line items Assets held for sale and Liabilities held for sale, respectively, in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. In 2018, management approved the disposal through sale of certain assets and businesses, which were a mix of Commercial Industries, Government Services and Transportation businesses. This action was taken as a result of our evaluation of these businesses as they represent businesses in markets or with services that we did not see as strategic or core. As of December 31, 2019, all of these businesses have been sold. Refer to Note 4 Divestiture to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Intangible Assets The fair values of identifiable intangible assets are primarily estimated using an income approach. These estimates include market participant assumptions and require projected financial information, including assumptions about future revenue growth and costs necessary to facilitate the projected growth. Other key inputs include assumptions about technological obsolescence, customer attrition rates, brand recognition, the allocation of projected cash flows to identifiable intangible assets and discount rates. We regularly review intangible assets with finite lives for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Factors we consider important which could trigger an impairment review include the following: significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results; significant changes in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business; and significant negative industry or economic trends. When we determine that the carrying value of intangibles and long-lived assets may not be recoverable based upon the existence of one or more of the above indicators of potential impairment, we assess whether an impairment has occurred based on whether net book value of the assets exceeds the related projected undiscounted cash flows from these assets groups. We consider a number of factors, including past operating results, budgets, economic projections, market trends and product development cycles in estimating future cash flows. Differing estimates and assumptions as to any of the factors described above could result in a materially different impairment charge, if any, and thus materially different results of operations. Goodwill In January 2017, the FASB issued updated accounting guidance for simplifying the goodwill impairment test. We early adopted this guidance for our goodwill impairment tests performed after January 1, 2017. Goodwill is not amortized but rather tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if an event or circumstance indicates that impairment may have been incurred. Events or circumstances that might indicate an interim evaluation is warranted include, among other things, unexpected adverse business conditions, macro and reporting unit specific economic factors, supply costs, unanticipated adverse events or conditions impacting revenues, cash flows or profitability, unanticipated competitive activities and acts by governments and courts. CNDT 2019 Annual Report 33 Table of Contents Application of the interim and annual goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets and liabilities to reporting units, assignment of goodwill to reporting units and the assessment of the fair value of each reporting unit. We determined during the first three quarters of 2019 that we had five reporting units (Financial Services & Healthcare (FS&H), Consumer & Industrial (C&I), Europe (together comprising Commercial Industries), Government Services and Transportation). During the fourth quarter of 2019, we changed our reporting units within the Commercial Industries reportable segment to reflect how we currently manage our business. We currently have six reporting units (End-User Customer Experience (EUCE), Transaction Processing (TP), Commercial Healthcare (CH) and Human Resources and Learning Services (HRL) (together comprising Commercial Industries), Government Services and Transportation), which support our three reportable segments. Interim Goodwill Impairment Evaluation During the first quarter of 2019, the Transportation reporting unit experienced unanticipated losses of certain customer contracts, lower than expected new customer contracts and higher costs of delivery (all subsequent to February 2019), and as a result, the expected growth of this reporting unit decreased resulting in its fair value being below its carrying value by an estimated $284 million. Accordingly, the Company recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $284 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019. In the second quarter of 2019, there were further unanticipated losses of certain customer contracts, lower potential future volumes and lower than expected new customer contracts (all subsequent to May 9, 2019). This led to actual results being below budget and a further downward revision of the long-term forecast across all of the Company former reporting units (FS&H, C&I, Europe, Government Services, and Transportation). As a consequence of the business performance and the strategy pivot due to changes in management that occurred in the second quarter of 2019, we lowered our sales outlook, average margin expectation for the future years, and increased our weighted average cost of capital. The table below summarizes key factors (by reporting unit) impacting our revised forecast within the second quarter of 2019 goodwill assessment. Key Factors FS&H C&I Europe Government Services Transportation Lower anticipated new business X X X X X Potential higher than anticipated contract losses X X X X Potential volume pressures X X X Strategic pivot X X X X X Based upon the information identified in the second quarter of 2019, we performed an interim goodwill impairment assessment for all our reporting units which resulted in a pre-tax impairment charge of $1.1 billion for the three months ended June 30, 2019. Annual Goodwill Impairment Evaluation Our annual quantitative impairment test of goodwill was performed as of October 1, 2019. In our quantitative test, we estimate the fair value of each reporting unit by weighting the results from the income approach (discounted cash flow methodology) and market approach. These valuation approaches require significant judgment and consider several factors that include, but are not limited to, expected future cash flows, growth rates and discount rates and comparable multiples from publicly traded companies in our industry. In addition, we are required to make certain assumptions and estimates regarding the current economic environment, industry factors and the future profitability of our businesses. CNDT 2019 Annual Report 34 Table of Contents When performing our discounted cash flow analysis for each reporting unit, we incorporate the use of projected financial information and discount rates that are developed using market participant-based assumptions. The cash-flow projections are based on three-year financial forecasts developed by management that include revenue and expense projections, restructuring and strategic transformation activities, capital spending trends and investment in working capital to support anticipated revenue growth or other changes in the business. The selected discount rates consider the risk and nature of the respective reporting units' cash flows, appropriate capital structure and rates of return that market participants would require to invest their capital in our reporting units. We believe these assumptions are appropriate and reflect our forecasted long-term business model and consider our historical results as well as the current economic environment and markets that we serve. Based on our quantitative assessments, we concluded that the fair value of our reporting units exceeded their respective carrying values by approximately $100 million (for all Commercial Industries), $21 million for Government Services and $24 million for Transportation, respectively. The most significant assumption used in the goodwill analysis relates to the discount rates (ranging from 8.75% to 12.75%) and long-term organic growth rates (ranging from 2.5% to 3.0%) for the reporting units comprising the Commercial Industries, Government Services and Transportation reporting units. Subsequent to completing the annual impairment test, the Company experienced further unanticipated contract losses within the Government Services reporting unit, and as result, management performed a goodwill impairment assessment for this reporting unit as of December 31, 2019, which resulted in a pre-tax impairment charge of $512 million. In addition, in the fourth quarter we recorded an immaterial correction to the impairment charges recorded in the first and second quarters to properly reflect the impact of tax deductible goodwill on the previous impairments as well as the related income tax benefit. The impairment adjustment and related income tax benefit to the first quarter charge for the Transportation reporting unit totaled $20 million and $1 million, respectively. The impairment adjustment and related income tax benefit to the second quarter charge totaled $69 million and $6 million, respectively. The second quarter impairment and income tax benefit adjustments corrected the combined Commercial Industries reporting units by $53 million and $5 million, respectively, and the Government Services reporting unit by $16 million and $1 million, respectively. We believe these adjustments are not material to the current period or any prior period. The cumulative impairment charge for the year ended December 31, 2019 was approximately $2.0 billion. Refer to Note 8 Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding goodwill by reportable segment. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. The determination of our provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. Our provision is based on nonrecurring events as well as recurring factors, including the taxation of foreign income. In addition, our provision will change based on discrete or other nonrecurring events such as audit settlements, tax law changes, changes in valuation allowances and other factors, that may not be predictable. In the event that there is a significant unusual or one-time item recognized in our operating results, the taxes attributable to that item would be separately calculated and recorded at the same time as an unusual or one-time item. We record the estimated future tax effects of temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and amounts reported in our Consolidated Balance Sheets, as well as operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. We follow very specific and detailed guidelines in each tax jurisdiction regarding the recoverability of any tax assets recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets and provide valuation allowances as required. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability considering historical profitability, projected future taxable income, the expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences and tax planning strategies. Gross deferred tax assets of $309 million and $210 million had valuation allowances of $72 million and $44 million at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. CNDT 2019 Annual Report 35 Table of Contents On December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Reform). The Tax Reform includes a tax on global intangible low-taxed income ( GILTI ), which imposes a U.S. tax on certain income earned by the Company foreign subsidiaries. The Company elected to treat the tax on GILTI as a period cost when incurred and therefore, no deferred taxes for GILTI have been recognized for the year ended December 31, 2019. We are subject to ongoing tax examinations and assessments in various jurisdictions. Accordingly, we may incur additional tax expense based upon our assessment of the more-likely-than-not outcomes of such matters. In addition, when applicable, we adjust previously recorded tax expense to reflect examination results. Our ongoing assessments of the more-likely-than-not outcomes of examinations and related tax positions require judgment and can materially increase or decrease our effective tax rate, as well as impact our operating results. Unrecognized tax benefits were $24 million, $20 million and $15 million at December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Refer to Note 15 Income Taxes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding deferred income taxes and unrecognized tax benefits. Loss Contingencies We are currently involved in various claims and legal proceedings. At least quarterly, we review the status of each significant matter and assess its potential financial exposure considering all available information including, but not limited to, the impact of negotiations, settlements, rulings, advice of legal counsel and other updated information and events pertaining to a particular matter. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether an exposure is reasonably estimable. Because of uncertainties related to these matters, accruals are based only on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, we reassess the potential liability related to pending claims and litigation and may revise estimates. These revisions in the estimates of the potential liabilities could have a material impact on the results of operations and financial position. Refer to Note 16 Contingencies and Litigation to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding loss contingencies. Recent Accounting Changes See Note 1 Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies for information on accounting standards adopted during the current year, as well as recently issued accounting standards not yet required to be adopted and the expected impact of the adoption of these accounting standards. To the extent we believe the adoption of new accounting standards has had or will have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition or liquidity, we also discuss the impact in the applicable section(s) of this MD&A. Other Developments SEC Rule FAST Act Modernization and Simplification of Regulation S-K In March 2019, the SEC adopted amendments to modernize and simplify certain disclosure requirements in Regulation S-K as part of modernization and simplification of Regulation S-K and related rules and forms. The amendments, which, among other things, change the requirements for the content of MD&A and change the process for redacting confidential information in certain exhibits, are intended to improve the readability and navigability of disclosure documents and discourage repetition and disclosure of immaterial information. The final rule became effective May 2, 2019. The provisions of the rule that have the most significant impact on our disclosures under Regulation S-K and the content of this Form 10-K include: (i) the elimination, where appropriate, of the requirement to include in MD&A a discussion of the earliest year for registrants that provide financial statements covering three years in their filings, as such discussion is already included in prior filings; and (ii) a requirement that registrants identify the location in the prior filing where the omitted discussion can be found. CNDT 2019 Annual Report 36 Table of Contents Financial Information The section below provides a comparative discussion of our consolidated results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2019 and 2018. See Item 7. MD&A Financial Information in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, for a comparative discussion of our consolidated results of operations between 2018 and 2017. Year Ended December 31, 2019 vs. 2018 (in millions) 2019 2018 $ Change % Change Revenue $ 4,467 $ 5,393 $ (926) (17) % Operating Costs and Expenses Cost of services (excluding depreciation and amortization) 3,494 4,182 $ (688) (16) % Selling, general and administrative (excluding depreciation and amortization) 479 560 $ (81) (14) % Research and development (excluding depreciation and amortization) 8 11 (3) (27) % Depreciation and amortization 459 460 (1) % Restructuring and related costs 71 81 (10) (12) % Interest expense 78 112 (34) (30) % (Gain) loss on extinguishment of debt 108 (108) (100) % Goodwill impairment 1,952 1,952 (Gain) loss on divestitures and transaction costs 25 42 (17) (40) % Litigation costs (recoveries), net 17 227 (210) (93) % Other (income) expenses, net (10) 5 (15) (300) % Total Operating Costs and Expenses 6,573 5,788 785 Income (Loss) Before Income Taxes (2,106) (395) (1,711) Income tax expense (benefit) (172) 21 (193) Net Income (Loss) $ (1,934) $ (416) $ (1,518) Revenue Revenue for 2019 decreased, compared to the prior year period, mainly due to the impact from divestitures completed in 2019 and 2018, lost business in the Commercial Industries and Government Services segments, price and volume pressure and currency fluctuations. Partially offsetting these declines were increases from the ramp of new business. Cost of Services (excluding depreciation and amortization) Cost of services for 2019 decreased, compared to the prior year period, mainly driven by the divestitures completed in 2019 and 2018, reductions in real estate, IT and labor costs from our transformation initiatives, lost business and lower volumes. Selling, General and Administrative (SG&A) (excluding depreciation and amortization) Lower SG&A for 2019, compared to the prior year period, was reflective of divested SG&A expenses, reductions in real estate costs, lower corporate overhead costs and reductions labor costs, including reductions in 401(k) costs. CNDT 2019 Annual Report 37 Table of Contents Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization for 2019 decreased, compared to the prior year period, primarily due to the divestitures in 2019 and 2018, partially offset by the HSP acquisition and increased capitalized software amortization for new projects placed in service. Refer to Note 5 Business Acquisition and Note 8 Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the HSP acquisition and our intangible assets, respectively. Restructuring and Related Costs We engage in a series of restructuring programs related to downsizing our employee base, reducing our real estate footprint, exiting certain activities, outsourcing certain internal functions, consolidating our data centers and engaging in other actions designed to reduce our cost structure and improve productivity. The following are the components of our Restructuring and related costs: Year Ended December 31, (in millions, except headcount in whole numbers) 2019 2018 Severance and related costs $ 28 $ 34 Data center consolidation 21 4 Other contractual termination costs 3 37 Asset impairment 15 3 Total Net Current Period Charges 67 78 Consulting and other costs (1) 4 3 Restructuring and Related Costs $ 71 $ 81 Reduction in headcount (2) 1,300 3,300 __________ (1) Represents professional support costs associated with our strategic transformation program. (2) Relates to headcount reductions worldwide associated with Severance and related costs Refer to Note 9 Restructuring Programs and Related Costs to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our restructuring programs. Interest Expense The decrease in Interest expense for 2019, compared to the prior year period, was driven primarily by lower average debt balances resulting mostly from the tender offer in 2018 and repricing. Refer to Note 11 Debt to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (Gain) Loss on Extinguishment of Debt The loss on extinguishment of debt in 2018 related to the premium paid for the substantial buyback of the 10.5% Senior Notes due 2024. Refer to Note 11 Debt to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Goodwill Impairment The goodwill impairment for 2019 related to the write-down of the carrying values of the reporting units. Refer to Note 8 Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net to the Consolidated Financial Statements and MD&A Overview Significant 2019 Actions Goodwill Impairment for additional information. CNDT 2019 Annual Report 38 Table of Contents (Gain) Loss on Divestitures and Transaction Costs The loss in 2019 consists of $6 million of changes in estimates related to losses on divestitures, $2 million related to a loss on sale of assets and $17 million of transaction and related costs, $4 million of which related to costs to remediate Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards compliance issues related to the sale of select standalone customer care contracts to Skyview Capital LLC. The loss in 2018 was mainly related to the impairment charge on the anticipated sale of a portfolio of select standalone customer care contracts to Skyview Capital LLC. Litigation Costs (Recoveries), Net Net litigation costs for 2019 consist primarily of the recognition of the $13 million discount on the fair value of the Texas litigation liability established in 2018, due to the 2019 acceleration of the payment terms of the settlement. The 2018 expenses were primarily due to the increase in reserves for the Texas litigation and establishment of reserves for the Cognizant terminated contracts. Refer to Note 16 Contingencies and Litigation to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Other (Income) Expenses, Net Other (income) expenses, net primarily includes foreign currency transaction losses (gains), interest income, the Student Loan business shut-down costs and other deferred compensation investment results. Income Taxes The 2019 effective tax rate was 8.2%, compared to (5.3)% for 2018. The 2019 rate was lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 21%, primarily due to the goodwill impairment charge being partially non-deductible for tax and the geographic mix of income, partially offset by U.S. federal tax credits and tax benefits recognized on the sale of a portfolio of select standalone customer care contracts to Skyview Capital LLC. The 2018 rate was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate of 21%, primarily due to pre-tax loss and tax from the divestitures, partially offset by U.S. foreign tax credits. Excluding the impact of goodwill impairment, divestitures, the Texas litigation reserve, amortization and restructuring, the normalized effective tax rate for 2019 was 30.0%. The normalized effective tax rate of 25.1% for 2018, was predominantly impacted by the exclusion of divestitures, the Texas litigation reserve, the loss on extinguishment of debt, amortization, restructuring and divestiture related costs. CNDT 2019 Annual Report 39 Table of Contents Operations Review of Segments Our reportable segments correspond to how we organize and manage the business and are aligned to the industries in which our clients operate. We organize and manage our businesses through three reportable segments (Commercial Industries, Government Services and Transportation), Other operations and Shared IT / Infrastructure & Corporate Costs. The section below provides a comparative discussion of our financial performance by segment between the year ended December 31, 2019 and 2018. See Item 7. MD&A Operations Review of Segment in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, for a comparative discussion of our consolidated results of operations between 2018 and 2017. (in millions) Commercial Industries Government Services Transportation Other Shared IT / Infrastructure & Corporate Costs Total Year Ended Dec 31, 2019 Divestitures Other Total Revenue $ 2,385 $ 1,263 $ 781 $ 36 $ 2 $ $ 4,467 Segment profit (Loss) $ 448 $ 394 $ 120 $ 1 $ $ (690) $ 273 Adjusted EBITDA $ 542 $ 423 $ 157 $ 1 $ $ (629) $ 494 % of Total Revenue 53.4 % 28.3 % 17.5 % 0.8 % % % 100.0 % Adjusted EBITDA Margin 22.7 % 33.5 % 20.1 % 2.8 % % % 11.1 % Year Ended Dec 31, 2018 Total Revenue $ 2,550 $ 1,351 $ 729 $ 752 $ 11 $ $ 5,393 Segment profit (Loss) $ 501 $ 424 $ 113 $ 98 $ (19) $ (695) $ 422 Adjusted EBITDA $ 598 $ 451 $ 149 $ 105 $ (16) $ (647) $ 640 % of Total Revenue 47.3 % 25.1 % 13.5 % 13.9 % 0.2 % % 100.0 % Adjusted EBITDA Margin 23.5 % 33.4 % 20.4 % 14.0 % (145.5) % % 11.9 % Commercial Industries Segment Revenue Commercial Industries revenue for 2019 decreased, compared to the prior year period, primarily driven by contract losses, volume pressure, price pressure upon renewals, strategic exits and currency fluctuations. These losses were partially offset by revenue from new contracts. Segment Profit and Adjusted EBITDA Decreases in the Commercial Industries segment profit and adjusted EBITDA margin for 2019, compared to the prior year period, were mainly driven by the overall revenue declines, partially offset by reductions in labor, IT and real estate costs from our transformation initiatives. Government Services Segment Revenue Government Services revenue for 2019 decreased, compared to the prior year period, primarily driven by contract losses and pricing and scope changes associated with a large renewal. These declines were partially offset by ramp of new business. CNDT 2019 Annual Report 40 Table of Contents Segment Profit and Adjusted EBITDA Decreases in the Government Services segment profit and adjusted EBITDA margin for 2019, compared to the prior year period, were mainly driven by lower revenue, partially offset by lower IT and delivery costs. Transportation Segment Revenue Transportation revenue for 2019 increased, compared to the prior year period, primarily driven by ramp of new business and volume increases. Segment Profit and Adjusted EBITDA Transportation segment profit and adjusted EBITDA margin for 2019 increased, compared to the prior year period, mainly driven by increased revenue and reduced IT platform spend. Other Revenue Other revenue for 2019 decreased, compared to the prior year period, driven mainly by the divestitures completed in 2018 and 2019 and the run-off of our Student Loan Services business. Segment Profit (Loss) and Adjusted EBITDA Decreases in Other segment profit and adjusted EBITDA for 2019, compared to the prior year period, were primarily due to divestitures completed in 2019 and 2018 and the run-off of our Student Loan Services business. Shared IT / Infrastructure & Corporate Costs Improvements in Shared IT/Infrastructure and Corporate costs for 2019, compared to the prior year period, were mainly due to reductions in corporate overhead costs. Metrics Signings Signings are defined as estimated future revenues from contracts signed during the period, including renewals of existing contracts. Total Contract Value (TCV) is the estimated total contractual revenue related to signed contracts. The amounts in the following table exclude divestitures. Year Ended December 31, 2019 vs. 2018 (in millions) 2019 2018 $ Change % Change New business TCV $ 996 $ 1,598 $ (602) (38) % Renewals TCV 2,230 3,847 (1,617) (42) % Total Signings $ 3,226 $ 5,445 $ (2,219) (41) % Annual recurring revenue signings (1) $ 281 $ 365 $ (84) (23) % Non-recurring revenue signings (2) $ 166 $ 234 $ (68) (29) % ___________ (1) Recurring revenue signings are for new business contracts longer than one year. (2) Non-recurring revenue signings are for contracts shorter than one year. CNDT 2019 Annual Report 41 Table of Contents Signings for the 2019 decreased, compared to the prior year, primarily due to sales headcount challenges and market positioning. Renewal Rate Renewal rate is defined as the annual recurring revenue (ARR) on contracts that are renewed during the period as a percentage of ARR on all contracts for which a renewal decision was made during the period, excluding any contracts that were not renewed and where a strategic action to improve the risk or profitability had been initiated. Excluding our strategic decision not to renew certain contracts, renewal rates for 2019 and 2018 were 81% and 95%, respectively. A large part of the decline was attributable to the loss of our California Medicaid contract. Capital Resources and Liquidity As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, total cash and cash equivalents were $496 million (of which approximately $124 million was cash in foreign locations) and $756 million (of which approximately $100 million was cash in foreign locations), respectively. The Company also has a $750 million revolving line of credit for its various cash needs, of which $83 million has been utilized for letters of credit as of December 31, 2019. As of December 31, 2019, there were $1.5 billion outstanding borrowings under our Credit Agreement of which $50 million was due within one year. Refer to Note 11 Debt to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional debt information. In January 2019, we acquired Health Solution Plus, a software provider of healthcare payer administration solutions for a total base consideration of $90 million. This acquisition is part of the Commercial Industries segment. Refer to Note 5 Business Acquisition to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding this acquisition. In February 2019, we reached a settlement agreement and release with the State of Texas ("State") and the Texas Department of Health and Human Services, which was amended in May 2019 ("Texas Agreement"). Pursuant to the terms of the Texas Agreement, the Company was required to pay the State $236 million, of which $118 million was paid in 2019 and the remaining $118 million paid in January 2020. Refer to Note 16 Contingencies and Litigation to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding this litigation settlement. Refer to the Capital Market Activity section below for additional information regarding our capital activity. Cash Flow Analysis The following summarizes our cash flows for the three years ended December 31, 2019, as reported in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements: Year Ended December 31, Change (in millions) 2019 2018 2019 vs. 2018 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 132 $ 283 $ (151) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (310) 460 (770) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (85) (637) 552 Operating Activities The decrease in cash generated from operating activities of $151 million, compared to the prior year period, was primarily attributable to $131 million of payments for the Texas and other litigation and lower adjusted EBITDA of $146 million, partially offset by lower cash income tax payments of $62 million, lower restructuring payments of $14 million and other working capital improvements of $50 million. CNDT 2019 Annual Report 42 Table of Contents Investing Activities The increase in cash used in investing activities of $770 million, compared to the prior year period, was primarily due to the absence of the proceeds from the divestitures and asset sales in 2018, the acquisition of HSP and increased spending for capital expenditures related to modernizing our IT infrastructure for both customer-facing and internal functions in 2019. Financing Activities The decrease in cash used in financing activities for 2019, compared to the prior year period, was related to lower debt repayments. Sales of Accounts Receivable The net impact from the sales of accounts receivable on net cash provided by (used in) operating activities for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 was $51 million, $23 million and $(3) million, respectively. The net impact from the sales of accounts receivable represents the difference between current and prior year fourth quarter accounts receivable sales adjusted for the effects of: (i) collections prior to the end of the year and (ii) currency. Capital Market Activity On June 28, 2018, the Company entered into Amendment No. 3 (Amendment) to the December 7, 2016 Credit Agreement and in July 2018, the Company redeemed $476 million of its $510 million 10.5 % Senior Notes due 2024. Refer to Note 11 Debt to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on both Amendment No. 3 and the partial redemption of the Senior Notes. Financial Instruments Refer to Note 12 Financial Instruments to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Contractual Cash Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments and Contingencies At December 31, 2019, we had the following contractual cash obligations and other commercial commitments and contingencies: (in millions) 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Thereafter Total debt, including finance lease obligations (1) $ 50 $ 84 $ 571 $ 800 $ 34 $ Interest on debt (2) 76 73 63 37 4 1 Minimum operating lease commitments (3) 106 79 57 36 28 62 Estimated Purchase Commitments (4) 80 20 3 2 1 Total $ 312 $ 256 $ 694 $ 875 $ 67 $ 63 _______________ (1) Total debt represents principal debt and finance leases. Refer to Note 11 Debt to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding debt. (2) Represents interest on debt. Refer to Note 11 Debt in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (3) Refer to Note 1 Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (4) Other purchase commitments: We enter into other purchase commitments with vendors in the ordinary course of business. Our policy with respect to all purchase commitments is to record losses, if any, when they are probable and reasonably estimable. We currently do not have, nor do we anticipate, material loss contracts. The table above does not include the amounts payable under the Texas Agreement. Refer to Note 16 Contingencies and Litigation to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. CNDT 2019 Annual Report 43 Table of Contents Other Contingencies and Commitments As more fully discussed in Note 16 Contingencies and Litigation to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we are involved in a variety of claims, lawsuits, investigations and proceedings concerning: securities law; governmental entity contracting, servicing and procurement law; intellectual property law; employment law; the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA); and other laws and regulations. In addition, guarantees, indemnifications and claims may arise during the ordinary course of business from relationships with suppliers, customers and non-consolidated affiliates. Nonperformance under a contract including a guarantee, indemnification or claim could trigger an obligation of the Company. We determine whether an estimated loss from a contingency should be accrued by assessing whether a loss is deemed probable and can be reasonably estimated. Should developments in any of these areas cause a change in our determination as to an unfavorable outcome and result in the need to recognize a material accrual, or should any of these matters result in a final adverse judgment or be settled for significant amounts, they could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position in the period or periods in which such change in determination, judgment or settlement occurs. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2019, we do not believe we have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a material current or future effect on financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. In addition, refer to the preceding table for the Company's contractual cash obligations and other commercial commitments and Note 16 Contingencies and Litigation to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding contingencies, guarantees and indemnifications. CNDT 2019 Annual Report 44 Table of Contents 
