CIK: 844965
Company Name: TETRA TECHNOLOGIES INC
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2016-03-04
Accession Number: 0000844965-16-000116


Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation. The following discussion is intended to analyze major elements of our consolidated financial statements and provide insight into important areas of management focus. This section should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying Notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Statements in the following discussion may include forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. See Item 1A. Risk Factors, for additional discussion of these factors and risks. Business Overview Despite the declining demand for energy services during 2015, the August 2014 acquisition by our Compression Division of Compressor Systems, Inc. ("CSI") resulted in growth in consolidated revenues during 2015 compared to the prior year. The revenues of our Compression Division, primarily through CCLP, reflected growth during 2015 compared to the prior year, as the August 4, 2014, closing date of the acquisition of CSI (the "CSI Acquisition") resulted in a full year of activity during 2015 compared to approximately five months during the prior year. Increased offshore clear brine fluids ("CBF") and completion services activity, including from a customer project associated with a new completion fluids technology that was introduced during the first half of 2015, was more than offset by the decreased demand for onshore water management services and resulted in overall decreased revenues by the Fluids Division. Despite the decrease in revenues, Fluids Division gross profit increased, primarily due to improved margins associated with the mix of CBF products and services, particularly for offshore completion fluids products and services associated with our new completion fluid technology. The growth in consolidated revenues, which was a result of the August 2014 acquisition of CSI, occurred despite the continuing overall industry market challenges as a result of lower oil and natural gas commodity prices compared to early 2014. Oil and natural gas prices have weakened further in early 2016. The previous declines in commodity prices resulted in many of our customers reducing or suspending their near-term capital expenditure plans during 2015 and further reducing or suspending their near-term capital expenditures in 2016. Throughout the industry, drilling and completion activity continues to decrease, putting increased competitive pressure on several of our businesses. In addition to the decreased activity levels of the water management business of our Fluids Division, the current market environment has also negatively impacted our Production Testing and Offshore Services segments, as well as the low-horsepower production enhancement services operations and all compressor equipment sales operations of our Compression Division. As a result, during the fourth quarter of 2015, we recorded $221.2 million of impairment charges, primarily for our Compression and Production Testing Divisions, reflecting the decreased fair values of identified assets, including compression and other equipment, goodwill, and other intangible assets. In early 2016, we continue to respond aggressively to the current challenging industry environment with cost reduction actions for each of our businesses, which have included additional reductions in headcount, deferral of wage increases, wage reductions, renegotiation of vendor contracts, and other cost restructuring measures. These steps have resulted in improved profitability for certain of our businesses, particularly our Offshore Services segment, which reported increased profitability compared to the prior year period despite a significant decrease in revenues. As a result of the above factors, as well as from decreased Maritech excess decommissioning costs compared to the prior year period, 2015 consolidated gross profit increased 99.1% compared to the corresponding prior year period, with only a minimal increase in revenues. Given the lower demand for certain of our products and services in the current oil and natural gas services market environment, the expected level of future consolidated operating cash flows, which we have historically used to fund our growth and liquidity needs, has become more uncertain. While remaining committed to a long-term growth strategy, our near-term focus during this period of reduced demand is to preserve and enhance liquidity through strategic operating and financial measures. In addition to cost structure rationalization and working capital management, we have also focused on capital structure enhancements designed to strengthen our consolidated balance sheet. On November 20, 2015, we issued and sold $125.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 11.0% Senior Notes due November 5, 2022 (the Series 2015 Senior Notes"), enabling us to pay the $25.0 million purchase price pursuant to a tender offer which commenced on November 5, 2015 , (the Tender Offer ) to purchase for cash up to $25.0 million aggregate principal amount of certain of our outstanding Series 2010-A Senior Notes and Series 2010-B Senior Notes (collectively, the Series 2010 Senior Notes ), and to prepay in full all amounts owed in respect of the $90.0 million principal amount outstanding of our Series 2006-A Senior Notes due April 30, 2016. In addition, we entered into an amendment of the Senior Secured Note Purchase Agreement, resulting in the extension of the maturity date of the $50.0 million of our Senior Secured Notes due April 1, 2017 (the "Senior Secured Notes") issued thereunder from 2017 to 2019. As a result of these transactions, we have repaid and 30 extended the maturity dates of a significant portion of TETRA's total long-term debt without significantly increasing the amount of TETRA's net borrowings. We believe the steps taken, including the cost reduction steps discussed above, have enhanced our capital structure and operating cash flows and will continue to enhance our operating cash flows in the future. As a result, we believe that, despite the current industry environment and activity levels, we and CCLP will have adequate liquidity to fund our operations and debt obligations and maintain compliance with debt covenants through December 31, 2016. However, we cannot predict how an extended period of low commodity prices will affect our operations and liquidity levels. The following table provides condensed consolidating balance sheet information reflecting our net assets and CCLP's net assets that service our and its respective capital structures. December 31, 2015 Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheet TETRA CCLP Eliminations Consolidated (In Thousands) Cash, excluding restricted cash $ 12,437 $ 10,620 $ $ 23,057 Affiliate receivables 8,153 (8,153 ) Other current assets 216,767 115,580 332,347 Property, plant and equipment, net 348,724 699,280 1,048,004 Other assets, including investment in CCLP 157,193 154,970 (59,195 ) 252,968 Total assets $ 743,274 $ 980,450 $ (67,348 ) $ 1,656,376 Affiliate payables $ $ 8,153 $ (8,153 ) $ Current portion of long-term debt 50 50 Other current liabilities 126,449 58,747 185,196 Long-term debt, net 292,921 580,481 873,402 Other non-current liabilities 82,637 911 83,548 Total equity 241,217 332,158 (59,195 ) 514,180 Total liabilities and equity $ 743,274 $ 980,450 $ (67,348 ) $ 1,656,376 TETRA debt is serviced by our existing cash balances and cash provided from operating activities (excluding CCLP) and the distributions we receive from CCLP in excess of our cash capital expenditures (excluding CCLP). During the year ended December 31, 2015 , consolidated cash provided from operating activities was $196.0 million , which included approximately $101.9 million generated by CCLP. Our cash provided from operating activities is reduced by the amount we spent on Maritech decommissioning liabilities, which was $10.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2015 . During 2015, we received $30.5 million from CCLP as our share of CCLP distributions. Our consolidated operating cash flows during the year ended December 31, 2015 , increased to $196.0 million , an increase of $87.3 million , or 80.4% , over the prior year. These increased consolidated operating cash flows during 2015 not only reflect the acquisition of CSI, but also the impact of the cost reduction steps noted above and the increased cash flows generated by certain of our businesses. Consolidated capital expenditures were $120.6 million (including $95.3 million by our Compression Division) during the year ended December 31, 2015 , compared to $131.6 million of consolidated capital expenditures (including $48.1 million by our Compression Division) during the prior year. Compression Division capital expenditures during 2015 primarily relate to the expansion of its over 100-horsepower compressor package service fleet, but are expected to decrease significantly going forward as the demand for compression services has decreased in the current market environment. Excluding the 2015 growth in Compression Division capital expenditures, our capital expenditure levels reflect our continuing efforts to defer or reduce capital expenditure projects in the current market environment. Key objectives associated with our separate capital structure (excluding the capital structure of CCLP) include the ongoing management of amounts outstanding and available under our bank revolving credit facility and repayment of our Senior Notes. CCLP plans to continue monitoring demand levels for its compression products and services in the current environment and consider additional cost reductions, capital expenditure deferrals, and other steps to conserve liquidity. TETRA's future consolidated operating cash flows will also be affected by the continuing challenges associated with extinguishing the remaining Maritech asset retirement obligations. The amount of 31 recorded liability for these remaining obligations is approximately $48.4 million as of December 31, 2015 . Approximately $14.6 million of this amount is expected to be performed during the twelve month period ending December 31, 2016, with the timing of a portion of this work being discretionary. Future demand for our products and services depends primarily on activity in the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry, particularly including the level of expenditures for the exploration and production of oil and natural gas reserves, natural gas compression infrastructure, and for the plugging and decommissioning of abandoned offshore oil and natural gas properties. The future growth of certain of our businesses is dependent on improved future pricing levels of oil and natural gas. When oil and natural gas prices increase, we believe that there are growth opportunities for our products and services, supported primarily by: increases in technologically driven deepwater oil and gas well completions in the Gulf of Mexico; applications for many of our products and services in the continuing exploitation and development of shale reservoirs; increased regulatory requirements governing the abandonment and decommissioning work on aging offshore platforms and wells in the Gulf of Mexico; and increases in selected international oil and gas exploration and development activities. Our Fluids Division generates revenues and cash flows by manufacturing and marketing clear brine fluids ("CBFs"), additives, and associated products and services to the oil and gas industry for use in well drilling, completion, and workover operations in the United States and in certain countries in Latin America, Europe, Asia, the Middle East, and Africa. The Fluids Division also markets liquid and dry calcium chloride products manufactured at its production facilities or purchased from third-party suppliers to a variety of markets outside the energy industry. The Fluids Division also provides domestic onshore oil and gas operators with a wide variety of water management services. Fluids Division revenues decreased $13.3 million during 2015 compared to 2014 , primarily due to reduced water management services revenues, reflecting the decreased activity levels in shale reservoir markets as a result of lower oil and natural gas prices compared to the prior year. The Fluids water management business is dependent upon domestic drilling activity, particularly in unconventional shale gas and oil reservoirs. North American onshore rig counts decreased significantly during 2015 and remain low in early 2016 as a result of current oil and natural gas pricing. Partially offsetting these decreased water management service revenues, Fluids Division revenues increased during 2015 from increased CBF and associated product sales and services revenues from U.S. Gulf of Mexico well completion projects primarily for a single customer using new completion fluid technology introduced earlier in 2015. Although demand for the Fluids Division CBF products is driven primarily by completion activity rather than drilling activity, the Gulf of Mexico rig count is a useful indicator of future demand for offshore CBF products. The Gulf of Mexico rig count dropped during 2015 as a result of low oil and natural gas prices and remains low in early 2016. Demand for certain of the Fluids Division's products and services, particularly for its manufactured products and for its CBF products in offshore and international markets, has been less affected by current low oil and natural gas prices than has the onshore operations. The Fluids Division has also been negatively affected by regulatory restrictions in the past and may continue to be affected by future regulatory restrictions. Our Production Testing Division generates revenues and cash flows by performing frac flowback, production well testing, offshore rig cooling, early production, and other associated services and products. The primary markets served by the Production Testing Division include many of the major oil and gas producing regions in the United States, Mexico, and Canada, as well as in oil and gas basins in certain regions in South America, Africa, Europe, the Middle East, and Australia. The Production Testing Division production testing operations are generally driven by the demand for natural gas and oil and the resulting levels of drilling and completion activities in the markets that the Production Testing Division serves. Many of the markets served by the Production Testing Division are characterized by high lifting costs for oil and natural gas, such as in certain unconventional shale gas and oil reservoirs and located in certain basins in the U.S., Canada, and certain other international markets. As a result of decreased oil and natural gas commodity prices, and the corresponding declines in the drilling and capital expenditures and plans of its customers, Production Testing activity levels have declined, particularly in certain markets in which it operates that are characterized by higher lifting costs. The Production Testing segment revenues decreased by $58.9 million in 2015 compared to 2014 , due to decreased overall market activity. The impact of decreased oil and natural gas pricing has negatively impacted demand for services in each of our areas of operations, including certain shale reservoir markets that were a source of revenue growth during the past several years. Increased competition for decreased industry activity negatively affected pricing levels for services, although the Division has successfully expanded its domestic customer base compared to the prior year. As a result of the continued decline in oil and natural gas prices, many of the Production Testing Division's customers have 32 announced further reductions or suspensions of their drilling and capital expenditure plans for 2016 and these actions are expected to further reduce demand for services. Our Compression Division generates revenues and cash flows by providing compression services and equipment for natural gas and oil production, gathering, transportation, processing, and storage. The Compression Division's equipment and parts sales business includes the fabrication and sale of standard compressor packages, custom-designed compressor packages, and oilfield fluid pump systems designed and fabricated by the Compression Division's facilities as well as the sale of compressor package parts and components manufactured by third-party suppliers. The Compression Division's aftermarket services business provides compressor package operations, reconfiguration, and maintenance services. The Compression Division provides its services and equipment to a broad base of natural gas and oil exploration and production, midstream, transmission, and storage companies operating throughout many of the onshore producing regions of the United States and in a number of foreign countries, including Mexico, Canada and Argentina. Compression Division revenues increased $175.1 million in 2015 as compared to 2014 , primarily attributable to a full twelve months of impact from CSI's operations in the current year compared to approximately five months of activity in the prior year due to the August 4, 2014, acquisition of CSI, by which the Compression Division significantly expanded its scope of operations. Compression Division revenues, particularly for sales of compressor packages, have decreased during the last half of 2015 due to reduced customer demand, as also reflected by the current reduced customer fabrication backlog for CSI compressor packages. Compression Division service revenues have also been negatively affected by current low oil and natural gas pricing, resulting in decreased demand for low-horsepower compression services in liquids-rich and dry gas markets. However, utilization of mid- and high-horsepower compressor packages has been less impacted by current oil and natural gas pricing. The decrease in demand for new compressor sales and low-horsepower compression services, due to reduced oil and natural gas prices, is expected to continue going forward until such commodity pricing improves. Our Offshore Division consists of two operating segments: Offshore Services and Maritech. The Offshore Services segment generates revenues and cash flows by performing (1) downhole and subsea services such as oil and gas well plugging and abandonment and workover services, (2) decommissioning and certain construction services utilizing heavy lift barges and various cutting technologies with regard to offshore oil and gas production platforms and pipelines, and (3) conventional and saturated diving services. The services provided by the Offshore Services segment are marketed to offshore operators, primarily in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. Gulf of Mexico platform decommissioning and well abandonment activity levels are driven primarily by BSEE regulations; the declining production levels of producing fields; the age of production platforms and other structures; oil and natural gas commodity prices; sales activity of mature oil and gas producing properties; and overall oil and gas company activity levels. Offshore Services revenues decreased by $73.2 million during 2015 compared to 2014 , due to the continuing challenges in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico market, including decreased diving, heavy lift, and abandonment services activity, customer project delays, and pricing pressures. A portion of the decreased revenues during 2015 compared to 2014 was due to decreased decommissioning and abandonment work performed for Maritech, and we expect that this decreased Maritech activity will continue in 2016. Revenues for work performed for Maritech are eliminated in consolidation. The Offshore Services segment is focused on replacing work performed for Maritech with work for third party customers; however, demand for services in 2015 and projected work for 2016 reflects the impact of increased competition and the impact of reduced customer activity resulting from decreased oil and natural gas prices. The sale of substantially all of Maritech oil and gas producing properties during 2011 and 2012 has essentially removed us from the oil and gas exploration and production business. Maritech revenues are minimal and are expected to continue to be minimal going forward. Maritech current operations primarily consist of the ongoing plugging, abandonment, and decommissioning associated with its remaining offshore wells, facilities, and production platforms. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates This discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements. We prepared these financial statements in conformity with United States generally accepted accounting principles. In preparing our consolidated financial statements, we make assumptions, estimates, and judgments that affect the amounts reported. We base these estimates on historical experience, available information, and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable. We periodically evaluate these estimates and judgments, including those related to potential impairments of long-lived assets (including goodwill), the collectability of accounts receivable, and the current cost of future abandonment and 33 decommissioning obligations. Note B Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the Consolidated Financial Statements contains the accounting policies governing each of these matters. The fair values of portions of our total assets and liabilities are measured using significant unobservable inputs. The combination of these factors forms the basis for our judgments made about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. These judgments and estimates may change as new events occur, as new information is acquired, and as changes in our operating environment are encountered. Actual results are likely to differ from our current estimates, and those differences may be material. The following critical accounting policies reflect the most significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets The determination of impairment of long-lived assets, including identified intangible assets, is conducted periodically whenever indicators of impairment are present. If such indicators are present, the determination of the amount of impairment is based on our judgments as to the future operating cash flows to be generated from these assets throughout their estimated useful lives. If an impairment of a long-lived asset is warranted, we estimate the fair value of the asset based on a present value of these cash flows or the value that could be realized from disposing of the asset in a transaction between market participants. The oil and gas industry is cyclical, and our estimates of the amount of future cash flows, the period over which these estimated future cash flows will be generated, as well as the fair value of an impaired asset, are imprecise. Our failure to accurately estimate these future operating cash flows or fair values could result in certain long-lived assets being overstated, which could result in impairment charges in periods subsequent to the time in which the impairment indicators were first present. Alternatively, if our estimates of future operating cash flows or fair values are understated, impairments might be recognized unnecessarily or in excess of the appropriate amounts. During 2015 , primarily as a result of the significant decrease in oil and natural gas prices, we recorded consolidated long-lived asset impairments of $44.2 million . During periods of economic uncertainty, the likelihood of additional material impairments of long-lived assets is higher due to the possibility of decreased demand for our products and services. Impairment of Goodwill The impairment of goodwill is also assessed whenever impairment indicators are present, but not less than once annually. The annual assessment for goodwill impairment begins with a qualitative assessment of whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of each reporting unit is less than its carrying value. This qualitative assessment requires the evaluation, based on the weight of evidence, of the significance of all identified events and circumstances for each reporting unit. Based on this qualitative assessment, we determined that due to the significant decrease in oil and natural gas commodity prices and the resulting expected negative impact on demand for the products and services for each of our reporting units, it was more likely than not that the fair value of certain of our reporting units were less than their carrying values as of December 31, 2015 . When the qualitative analysis indicates that it is more likely than not that a reporting unit fair value is less than its carrying value, the resulting goodwill impairment test consists of a two-step accounting test performed on a reporting unit basis. The first step of the impairment test is to compare the estimated fair value with the recorded net book value (including goodwill) of our reporting units. If the estimated fair value is higher than the recorded net book value, no impairment is deemed to exist and no further testing is required. If, however, the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, an impairment loss is calculated by comparing the carrying amount of the reporting unit goodwill to our estimated implied fair value of that goodwill. Our estimates of reporting unit fair value, if required, are based on a combination of an income and market approach. These estimates are imprecise and are subject to our estimates of the future cash flows of each business and our judgment as to how these estimated cash flows translate into each business estimated fair value. These estimates and judgments are affected by numerous factors, including the general economic environment at the time of our assessment, which affects our overall market capitalization. If we overestimate the fair value of our reporting units, the balance of our goodwill asset may be overstated. Alternatively, if our estimated reporting unit fair values are understated, impairments might be recognized unnecessarily or in excess of the appropriate amounts. Throughout 2015, and particularly during the last half of the year, lower oil and natural gas commodity prices have resulted in a decreased demand for many of the products and services of each of our reporting units. Specifically to our Compression Division, demand for low-horsepower wellhead compression services and for sales of compressor equipment have decreased significantly and are expected to continue to be decreased for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, the fair value for the Compression Division reporting unit, including the market capitalization for CCLP, was less than its carrying value as of December 31, 2015. For our Production Testing 34 Division reporting unit, demand for production testing services has decreased in each of the market areas in which we operate, resulting in decreased estimated future cash flows. As a result, the fair value of the Production Testing reporting unit was also less than its carrying value as of December 31, 2015. As part of our internal annual business outlook for each of our reporting units that we perform during each fourth quarter, we considered changes in the global economic environment that affected the equity prices and market capitalizations of TETRA and CCLP. As part of the first step of goodwill impairment testing, we updated our assessment of the future cash flows for each of our reporting units, applying expected long-term growth rates, discount rates, and terminal values that we consider reasonable for each reporting unit. Our Maritech and Offshore Services reporting units are excluded, because they do not contain goodwill. We have calculated a present value of the respective cash flows for each of the other reporting units to arrive at an estimate of fair value under the income approach and then used the market approach to corroborate these values. Based on these assumptions, we determined that the fair value of our Fluids Division was significantly in excess of its carrying value, which includes approximately $6.6 million of goodwill. After making the hypothetical purchase price adjustments as part of the second step of the goodwill impairment test, there was $92.4 million residual purchase price to be allocated to the goodwill of the Compression reporting unit and approximately $13.9 million residual purchase price to be allocated to the goodwill of the Production Testing reporting unit. Based on this analysis, we concluded that an impairment of $139.4 million of the $233.6 million of recorded goodwill for Compression and an impairment of $37.6 million of the $51.5 million of recorded goodwill for Production Testing was required. Specific uncertainties affecting the estimated fair values of our Compression and Production Testing reporting units include the impact of competition, the trading prices of our common stock and the common units of CCLP, the price of oil and natural gas, future overall activity levels in the regions in which we operate, the activity levels of our significant customers, and other factors affecting the rate of future growth of these reporting units. These factors will continue to be reviewed and assessed during future periods. Negative developments with regard to these factors could have further negative effects on the fair values of our Compression and Production Testing reporting units and could result in future additional impairments of goodwill. Subsequent to December 31, 2015, and as of March 3, 2016 , the prices of our common stock and the common units of CCLP have continued to decline, and as a result future additional impairments are possible. Maritech Decommissioning Liabilities Maritech records a liability associated with the costs of abandoning and decommissioning the wells, platforms, and pipelines located on its oil and gas leases, as well as removing associated debris. Maritech decommissioning liabilities are established based on what Maritech estimates a third party would charge to perform these services. These well abandonment and decommissioning liabilities (referred to as decommissioning liabilities) are recorded net of amounts allocable to joint interest owners. In estimating the decommissioning liabilities, we perform detailed estimating procedures, analysis, and engineering studies. Whenever practical, Maritech settles these decommissioning liabilities by utilizing the services of its affiliated companies to perform well abandonment and decommissioning work. This practice saves us the profit margin that a third party would charge for such services. When these services are performed by an affiliated company, all recorded intercompany revenues are eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. Any difference between our own internal costs to settle the decommissioning liability and the recorded liability is recognized in the period in which we perform the work. The recorded decommissioning liability associated with a specific property is fully extinguished when the property is completely abandoned. Once a Maritech well abandonment and decommissioning project is performed, any remaining decommissioning liability in excess of the actual cost of the work performed is recorded as a gain and is included in earnings in the period in which the project is completed. Conversely, estimated or actual costs in excess of the decommissioning liability are charged against earnings in the period in which the work is estimated or performed. We review the adequacy of our decommissioning liabilities whenever indicators suggest that either the amount or timing of the estimated cash flows underlying the liabilities have changed materially. The amount of cash flows necessary to abandon and decommission the property is subject to changes due to seasonal demand, increased demand following hurricanes, regulatory changes, and other general changes in the energy industry environment. Accordingly, the estimation of our decommissioning liabilities is imprecise. Asset retirement obligations are recorded in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 410, whereby the estimated fair value of a liability for asset retirement obligations is recorded in the period in which it is incurred and in which a reasonable estimate can be made. Such estimates are based on relevant assumptions that we believe are reasonable. The cost estimates for Maritech asset retirement obligations are 35 considered reasonable estimates consistent with market conditions at the time they are made, and we believe they reflect the amount of work legally obligated to be performed in accordance with BSEE standards, as revised from time to time. During each of the three years ended December 31, 2015 , Maritech adjusted its decommissioning liabilities as a result of increased estimates, as well as the actual cost of significant abandonment and decommissioning work performed during each of those years. Maritech recorded approximately $150.7 million of excess decommissioning expense during the three years ended December 31, 2015 , associated with work performed or to be performed on its oil and gas properties. The actual cost of performing Maritech well abandonment and decommissioning work has often exceeded Maritech's initial estimate of these decommissioning liabilities and has resulted in charges to earnings in the period the work is performed or when the additional liability is determined. To the extent our decommissioning liabilities are understated, additional charges to earnings may be required in future periods. Revenue Recognition We generate revenue on certain well abandonment, decommissioning, and dive services projects under contracts which are typically of short duration and that provide for either lump-sum charges or specific time, material, and equipment charges, which are billed in accordance with the terms of such contracts. We generally recognize revenue once the following four criteria are met: (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (2) delivery has occurred or services have been provided; (3) the sales price is fixed or determinable; and (4) collectability is reasonably assured. With regard to longer-term lump sum contracts, revenue is recognized using the percentage-of-completion method based on the ratio of costs incurred to total estimated costs at completion. The estimation of total costs to be incurred may be imprecise due to unexpected well conditions, delays, weather, and other uncertainties. Inaccurate cost estimates may result in the revenue associated with a specific contract being recognized in an inappropriate period. Total project revenue and cost estimates for lump sum contracts are reviewed periodically, but at least quarterly, as work progresses, and adjustments are reflected in the period in which such estimates are revised. Provisions for estimated losses on such contracts are made in full in the period such losses are determined. Despite the uncertainties associated with estimating the total contract cost, our recognition of revenue associated with these contracts has historically been reasonable. Occasionally, our Offshore Services segment is a party to project management contracts which contain multiple deliverables, including the performance of service milestones. While the contract provides contract-determined values associated with each milestone, the recognition of revenue is determined based on the realized market values received by the customer. The determination of realized market values is supported by objective evidence whenever possible, but may also be determined based on our judgments as to the value of a particular deliverable. The majority of our compression services are provided pursuant to contract terms ranging from one month to twenty-four months. Collections associated with progressive billings to customers for the construction of compression equipment are generally included in unearned income in the consolidated balance sheets until such time as the equipment is delivered. Income Taxes We are a U.S. company and are subject to income taxes in the U.S. We also operate in a number of countries under many legal forms. Our operations are taxed on various bases, including actual income before taxes, deemed profits (which are generally determined using a percentage of revenue rather than profits) and withholding taxes based on revenue. Determination of taxable income in any jurisdiction requires the interpretation of the applicable tax laws and regulations and the use of estimates and assumptions regarding significant future events such as the amount, timing, and character of deductions, permissible revenue recognition methods under the applicable tax laws, and the sources and character of income and tax credits. We provide for income taxes by taking into account the differences between the financial statement treatment and tax treatment of certain transactions. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the anticipated future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax basis amounts. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary 36 differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect of a change in tax rates is recognized as income or expense in the period that includes the enactment date. Management must make certain assumptions regarding whether tax differences are permanent or temporary and must estimate the timing of their reversal, and whether taxable operating income in future periods will be sufficient to fully recognize any gross deferred tax assets. We establish valuation allowances to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In determining the need for valuation allowances, management has considered and made judgments and estimates regarding estimated future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. Changes in state, federal, and foreign tax laws, as well as changes in our financial condition, could affect these estimates. In addition, we maintain liabilities for estimated tax exposures and uncertainties in jurisdictions where we operate. The annual tax provision includes the impact of income tax provisions and benefits for changes to liabilities that we consider appropriate, as well as related interest and penalties. We consider many factors when evaluating and estimating income tax uncertainties. These factors include an evaluation of the technical merits of the tax position as well as the amounts and probabilities of the outcomes that could be realized upon ultimate settlement. The actual resolution of those uncertainties will inevitably differ from those estimates, and such differences may be material to the financial statements. We believe that an appropriate liability has been established for the estimated exposures associated with these uncertainties under the guidance in ASC 740 Income Taxes. However, the actual resolution of those uncertainties will inevitably differ from those estimates, and such differences may be material to our consolidated financial statements. Acquisition Purchase Price Allocations We account for acquisitions of businesses using the purchase method, which requires the allocation of the purchase price based on the fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired. We estimate the fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired using accepted valuation methods, and, in many cases, such estimates are based on our judgments as to the future operating cash flows expected to be generated from the acquired assets throughout their estimated useful lives. We have completed several acquisitions during the past several years and have accounted for the various assets (including intangible assets) and liabilities acquired based on our estimate of fair values. Goodwill represents the excess of acquisition purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired. Our estimates and judgments of the fair value of acquired businesses are imprecise, and the use of inaccurate fair value estimates could result in the improper allocation of the acquisition purchase price to acquired assets and liabilities, which could result in asset impairments, the recording of previously unrecorded liabilities, and other financial statement adjustments. The difficulty in estimating the fair values of acquired assets and liabilities is increased during periods of economic uncertainty. 37 Results of Operations The following data should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the associated Notes contained elsewhere in this report. 2015 Compared to 2014 Consolidated Comparisons Year Ended December 31, Period to Period Change 2015 2014 2015 vs 2014 % Change (In Thousands, Except Percentages) Revenues $ 1,130,145 $ 1,077,567 $ 52,578 4.9 % Gross profit 189,236 95,044 94,192 99.1 % Gross profit as a percentage of revenue 16.7 % 8.8 % General and administrative expense 157,812 142,689 15,123 10.6 % General and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue 14.0 % 13.2 % Goodwill impairment 177,006 64,295 112,711 Interest expense, net 50,514 31,998 18,516 (Gain) loss on sale of assets (4,375 ) (11 ) (4,364 ) Other (income) expense, net 10,042 13,944 (3,902 ) Income (loss) before taxes and discontinued operations (201,763 ) (157,871 ) (43,892 ) Income (loss) before taxes and discontinued operations as a percentage of revenue (17.9 )% (14.7 )% Provision (benefit) for income taxes 7,704 9,704 (2,000 ) Income (loss) before discontinued operations (209,467 ) (167,575 ) (41,892 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes Net income (loss) (209,467 ) (167,575 ) (41,892 ) Net (income) loss attributable to noncontrolling interest 83,284 (2,103 ) 85,387 Net income (loss) attributable to TETRA stockholders $ (126,183 ) $ (169,678 ) $ 43,495 Consolidated revenues during 2015 increased compared to the prior year due to increased revenues for the Compression Division as a result of the CSI Acquisition. The impact of the CSI Acquisition, which resulted in the increased Compression Division revenues of approximately $175.1 million during 2015, greatly expanded the Division's operations, allowing it to participate in the compression market at a broader level. Each of our other segments reported decreased revenues, due to the impact of reduced oil and natural gas prices and the corresponding decrease in industry activity levels. Fluids Division revenues decreased, as decreased onshore water management services and manufactured product sales revenues more than offset the increased offshore completion services and CBF product sales revenues. Our Production Testing and Offshore Services segments reported significantly decreased revenues during the current year, primarily due to the impact of decreased industry demand and activity levels in each of the domestic and international markets we serve, largely caused by decreased oil and natural gas prices. See Divisional Comparisons section below for additional discussion. Consolidated gross profit increased during the current year compared to the prior year, primarily due to the results of our Fluids and Offshore Services segments. The increase in Fluids Division gross profit was primarily due to the mix of CBF products and services, particularly for U.S. Gulf of Mexico completion fluids products and services and increased profitability from our manufactured products operations. Our Offshore Services segment reflected gross profit compared to a gross loss in the prior year, despite decreased revenues, largely as a result of cost reductions and efficiencies implemented in response to decreased activity levels, as well as due to significant impairments recorded during the prior year. Maritech had a reduced gross loss compared to the prior year due to decreased excess decommissioning costs during the current year. These increases in profitability were partially offset by the decreased profitability of our Production Testing and Compression Divisions compared to the prior 38 year, as a result of a significant decrease in revenues and activity levels, as well as increased impairments of long-lived assets during 2015. Consolidated general and administrative expenses increased during the current year compared to the prior year due to the increase in Compression Division and Corporate Overhead administrative costs and despite cost reduction efforts. Compression Division administrative costs increased following the CSI Acquisition, despite approximately $8.7 million of transaction costs in the prior year, primarily related to the CSI Acquisition. In addition, Corporate Overhead administrative expenses also increased, primarily due to increased incentive and equity compensation. The increase in the Compression Division and Corporate Overhead general and administrative expenses was partially offset by decreased administrative costs for our Fluids, Production Testing, and Offshore Divisions, primarily as a result of cost reduction efforts by these segments. Following the fourth quarter of 2015, we performed an annual test of goodwill impairment in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 350-20 "Goodwill." The continuing decline in oil and natural gas commodity prices has had, and is expected to have, a continuing negative impact on industry drilling and capital expenditure activity, which affects the expected future demand for products and services of each of our reporting units. Specifically, demand for Compression Division's low-horsepower wellhead compression services and for sales of compressor equipment have decreased significantly and are expected to continue to be decreased for the foreseeable future. Demand for our Production Testing Division's services has also decreased as a result of decreased drilling and completion activity. This expected decreased demand, along with the decrease in the common unit price of our CCLP subsidiary, has also caused an overall reduction in the fair values of each of our reporting units, particularly our Compression and Production Testing reporting units. As part of the test of goodwill impairment, we have estimated the fair value of each of our reporting units, and have determined, based on these estimated values, that impairments of the goodwill of our Compression and Production Testing reporting units were necessary, primarily due to the market factors discussed above. Accordingly, during the fourth quarter of 2015, we recorded total impairment charges of $177.0 million associated with the goodwill of these reporting units. Consolidated interest expense increased due to increased borrowings, primarily from the increased borrowings by the Compression Division, through CCLP, primarily due to the CSI Acquisition. Consolidated interest expense levels going forward are expected to increase compared to the prior year periods as a result of the increased interest rate associated with the Series 2015 Senior Notes, which were issued in November 2015, and from increased CCLP borrowings associated with CCLP 2015 capital expenditure activity. Consolidated other expense was $10.0 million during the current year compared to $13.9 million during the prior year. Other expense during the prior year includes $9.3 million of interim financing costs that were expensed in connection with the CSI Acquisition. Also included in net other expense during the prior year was a $5.7 million gain associated with the acquisition of the interest in TETRA Arabia that we did not previously own, partially offset by a $2.9 million charge associated with the settlement of the pre-existing relationship with the other shareholder during the prior year period. Other expense during the current year includes a $1.6 million "make-whole" prepayment premium associated with the early repayment of the Series 2006-A Senior Notes, and increased Compression Division financing cost amortization as a result of the financing for the CSI Acquisition. Despite the significant pre-tax loss for the year ended December 31, 2015, we recorded a provision for income tax during the year. Our 2015 effective tax rate of negative 3.8% was primarily a result of losses generated in entities for which no related tax benefit has been recorded. The losses generated by these entities do not result in tax benefits due to offsetting valuation allowances being recorded against their net deferred tax assets. We establish a valuation allowance to reduce the deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Further, the effective tax rate is impacted by the nondeductible portion of our goodwill impairments during 2015. 39 Divisional Comparisons Fluids Division Year Ended December 31, Period to Period Change 2015 2014 2015 vs 2014 % Change (In Thousands, Except Percentages) Revenues $ 424,046 $ 437,362 $ (13,316 ) (3.0 )% Gross profit 111,969 97,806 14,163 14.5 % Gross profit as a percentage of revenue 26.4 % 22.4 % General and administrative expense 32,576 35,625 (3,049 ) (8.6 )% General and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue 7.7 % 8.1 % Interest (income) expense, net (258 ) (250 ) (8 ) Other (income) expense, net (1,140 ) (2,274 ) 1,134 Income before taxes and discontinued operations $ 80,791 $ 64,705 $ 16,086 24.9 % Income before taxes and discontinued operations as a percentage of revenue 19.1 % 14.8 % Fluids Division revenues decreased during 2015 compared to the prior year as approximately $24.7 million of decreased services revenues was partially offset by $11.4 million of increased product sales revenues. Fluids Division service revenues decreased due to reduced onshore water management services revenues, reflecting the decreased activity levels in shale reservoir markets as a result of lower oil and natural gas prices compared to the prior year. Partially offsetting these decreased service revenues, offshore U.S. Gulf of Mexico completion services revenues increased due to well completion projects for a single customer using a new completion fluid technology introduced during 2015. The increase in product sales revenues was primarily attributable to increased CBF and associated product sales revenues, including the U.S. Gulf of Mexico well completion projects for a single customer using the new completion fluid technology discussed above. In addition, Fluids Division product sales revenues increased from market share gains for domestic offshore CBF and associated products. This increase in domestic offshore CBF and associated product sales revenues more than offset decreased international revenues from sales of CBF products and manufactured products. Fluids Division gross profit increased during the current year compared to the prior year, despite decreased revenue, primarily due to improved margins associated with the mix of CBF products and services, particularly for offshore completion fluids products and services associated with the new completion fluid technology projects discussed above. Manufactured products gross profit also increased, partially due to $2.6 million of insurance claim proceeds received and credited to earnings during the current year. Cost reduction efforts also contributed to the improved gross profit during the current year compared to the prior year. Fluids Division income before taxes increased during the current year compared to the prior year, primarily due to the increased gross profit discussed above. Decreased Fluids Division other income was more than offset by decreased Fluids Division general and administrative costs due to administrative cost reductions, primarily associated with the decreased water management operations. Other income decreased due to a $2.7 million allocated portion of the remeasurement gain recorded in the prior year from our January 2014 acquisition of the remaining interest in TETRA Arabia from the fair value measurement of our previous investment in TETRA Arabia. No such gain was recorded in the current year, resulting in the decrease in other income. 40 Production Testing Division Year Ended December 31, Period to Period Change 2015 2014 2015 vs 2014 % Change (In Thousands, Except Percentages) Revenues $ 133,904 $ 192,824 $ (58,920 ) (30.6 )% Gross profit (loss) (3,046 ) 12,610 (15,656 ) (124.2 )% Gross profit (loss) as a percentage of revenue (2.3 )% 6.5 % General and administrative expense 17,726 20,512 (2,786 ) (13.6 )% General and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue 13.2 % 10.6 % Goodwill impairment 37,562 60,358 (22,796 ) Interest (income) expense, net (89 ) (31 ) (58 ) Other (income) expense, net (2,525 ) (2,061 ) (464 ) Loss before taxes and discontinued operations $ (55,720 ) $ (66,168 ) $ 10,448 15.8 % Loss before taxes and discontinued operations as a percentage of revenue (41.6 )% (34.3 )% Production Testing Division revenues decreased during 2015 compared to the prior year due to decreased overall market activity. Production Testing service revenues decreased approximately $66.0 million during the current year compared to the prior year, as the impact of decreased oil and natural gas pricing has negatively impacted demand for services in each of our areas of operations, including certain shale reservoir markets that were a source of revenue growth during the past several years. Increased competition for decreased market activity negatively affected pricing levels for services, although the Division has successfully expanded its domestic customer base compared to the prior year. Decreased service revenues were partially offset by approximately $7.1 million of product sales revenues generated from the sale of equipment during the current year. Production Testing Division reported a gross loss during the current year compared to a gross profit during the prior year due to the market conditions discussed above, including the negative impact of increased competition on pricing. Impairments of long-lived assets totaled approximately $12.3 million during the current year compared to $14.5 million of impairments recorded during the prior year. These impairments were recorded for certain operating equipment due to expected decreased utilization, demand, and future cash flows. The current year gross loss occurred despite the impact of cost reduction efforts, which have included downsized field operations, headcount reductions, deferrals of wage increases, and other steps to adjust the Production Testing Division's cost structure in light of the current market conditions. In response to expected future decreased activity levels, we continue to review and implement additional cost reduction steps. Production Testing Division reported a decreased pretax loss compared to the prior year, primarily due to the decreased impairment of goodwill compared to the prior year. We account for goodwill in accordance with ASC 350-20, and the impairments of goodwill reflect the significant decreases in future profitability and cash flows expected in the current market environment. The Production Testing Division general and administrative expenses decreased during the current year due to the impact of administrative cost reductions, which were partially offset by $3.3 million of increased bad debt expense. Other income increased due to increased gains on sales of assets, partly offset by increased foreign currency losses. 41 Compression Division Year Ended December 31, Period to Period Change 2015 2014 2015 vs 2014 % Change (In Thousands, Except Percentages) Revenues $ 457,639 $ 282,505 $ 175,134 62.0 % Gross profit 73,135 66,527 6,608 9.9 % Gross profit as a percentage of revenue 16.0 % 23.5 % General and administrative expense 43,356 31,969 11,387 35.6 % General and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue 9.5 % 11.3 % Goodwill impairment 139,444 139,444 Interest (income) expense, net 32,178 12,964 19,214 Other (income) expense, net 4,955 14,254 (9,299 ) Income (loss) before taxes and discontinued operations $ (146,798 ) $ 7,340 $ (154,138 ) (2,100.0 )% Income (loss) before taxes and discontinued operations as a percentage of revenue (32.1 )% 2.6 % Compression Division revenues increased $175.1 million during 2015 compared to the prior year due to the CSI Acquisition, which generated aggregate increased revenues of approximately $182.3 million during the current year. CSI compression and aftermarket services revenues generated approximately $119.4 million of increased compression service revenues during 2015 compared to the prior year. The increase in CSI revenues is primarily attributable to a full twelve months of activity in the current year compared to approximately five months of activity in the prior year due to the August 4, 2014 acquisition date. This increase in service revenue was partially offset by decreased non-CSI service revenue of approximately $10.9 million , primarily due to decreased demand for low-horsepower production enhancement compression services as a result of lower oil and natural gas commodity prices. Revenues from sales of compressor packages and parts during the current year increased $66.6 million compared to the prior year with $63.0 million of the increase related to sales of compressors and parts by CSI. The $3.6 million of increased sales of non-CSI compressors and parts was primarily generated by a large sale of low-horsepower compressor packages to a single customer in late 2015, although this sale will result in reduced compression service revenues from these packages going forward. Compression Division sales of compressor packages have decreased during the last half of 2015 due to reduced customer demand, as reflected by the current reduced fabrication backlog for CSI compressor packages. This decrease in demand due to reduced oil and natural gas prices is expected to continue going forward until such pricing improves. Compression Division gross profit increased during the current year compared to the prior year due to the impact of the CSI Acquisition, which generated approximately $12.9 million of increased gross profit during the current year. The increase in gross profit was despite the impact of approximately $11.7 million of increased impairments of compressor package equipment and identified intangible assets. These asset impairments reflected the reduced fair values for these assets as a result of decreased expected future demand and cash flows due to low oil and natural gas prices. Gross profit was also negatively affected by the decreased activity level of our non-CSI operations as discussed above. CSI gross profit also includes approximately $74.7 million of depreciation and amortization expense, which reflects the impact of the allocation of the CSI Acquisition purchase price. The Compression Division has taken cost reduction steps including headcount reductions, deferrals of wage increases, and other efforts to reduce the cost of its fabrication and field operations and is continuing to review its cost structure for additional opportunities to improve profitability in the current operating environment. The Compression Division reflected a significant decrease in pretax earnings during the current year compared to the prior year, primarily due to the impairment of a portion of Compression Division goodwill during the fourth quarter of 2015 pursuant to ASC 350-20. In addition, Compression Division interest expense increased significantly as a result of the issuance by CCLP of its 7.25% Senior Notes due 2022 (the "CCLP Senior Notes") and the increased borrowings by CCLP under the CCLP Credit Agreement to finance a portion of the purchase price of the CSI Acquisition during 2014. Compression Division administrative expense levels increased compared to the prior year, primarily due to the impact of the CSI Acquisition and the resulting increased corporate allocated costs, partly mitigated by certain administrative cost decreases and integration efficiencies. Other expense 42 decreased, primarily due to $9.3 million of interim financing commitment fees associated with the CSI Acquisition incurred in the prior year, partially offset by increased amortization of deferred finance costs during the current year. Offshore Division Offshore Services Segment Year Ended December 31, Period to Period Change 2015 2014 2015 vs 2014 % Change (In Thousands, Except Percentages) Revenues $ 122,194 $ 195,372 $ (73,178 ) (37.5 )% Gross profit (loss) 10,602 (10,314 ) 20,916 202.8 % Gross profit as a percentage of revenue 8.7 % (5.3 )% General and administrative expense 10,689 12,097 (1,408 ) (11.6 )% General and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue 8.7 % 6.2 % Impairment of goodwill 3,936 (3,936 ) Interest (income) expense, net 36 (36 ) Other (income) expense, net 108 (132 ) 240 Loss before taxes and discontinued operations $ (195 ) $ (26,251 ) $ 26,056 99.3 % Loss before taxes and discontinued operations as a percentage of revenue (0.2 )% (13.4 )% Revenues for the Offshore Services segment decreased significantly during 2015 compared to the prior year due to decreased revenues from its diving, heavy lift services, and well abandonment businesses. Decreased diving and well abandonment activity levels in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico reflected an overall decrease in demand in this market, partly due to customers' postponements of certain potential well abandonment projects. Given the current decreased oil and natural gas price environment, the Offshore Services segment anticipates a continued decrease in demand for its services compared to 2014 levels for the foreseeable future. Offshore Services revenues during the current year were also negatively affected by the reduction in work performed for our Maritech segment compared to the prior year, with $5.1 million of such work being performed during the current year compared to $30.6 million of revenues during the prior year. Revenues for work performed for Maritech, which are eliminated in consolidation, are expected to continue to be lower in future periods. Gross profit for the Offshore Services segment increased during the current year compared to a gross loss for the prior year despite the impact of decreased activity levels for diving, well abandonment, and heavy lift services as discussed above. Impairments of long-lived assets decreased approximately $13.7 million compared to the prior year due to impairments during 2014 of certain heavy lift and dive support vessels and associated equipment assets, as the fair values for these assets were negatively affected by the expected decreases in utilization and demand. In addition, cost reduction measures and process efficiencies that were implemented during the current and prior years, including reducing the size of the segment's vessel and equipment fleets, resulted in increased gross profit. The Offshore Services segment continues to consider additional opportunities to optimize its operating cost structure. The Offshore Services segment reported a decreased loss compared to the prior year due to the increased gross profit discussed above, decreased general and administrative expenses, and the goodwill impairment during the prior year. The Offshore Services segment continues to review its administrative cost structure and made additional headcount reductions and process efficiency actions during 2015. 43 Maritech Segment Year Ended December 31, Period to Period Change 2015 2014 2015 vs 2014 % Change (In Thousands, Except Percentages) Revenues $ 2,438 $ 4,722 $ (2,284 ) (48.4 )% Gross profit (loss) (2,523 ) (69,861 ) 67,338 96.4 % General and administrative expense 1,281 1,359 (78 ) (5.7 )% General and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue 52.5 % 28.8 % Interest (income) expense, net 29 11 18 (Gain) loss on sales of assets (77 ) 77 Other (income) expense, net Loss before taxes and discontinued operations $ (3,833 ) $ (71,154 ) $ 67,321 94.6 % As a result of the sale of almost all of its producing properties during 2011 and 2012, Maritech revenues were negligible and are expected to continue to be negligible going forward. Maritech recorded a decreased gross loss during the current year compared to the prior year due to $70.1 million of decreased excess decommissioning costs charged to earnings during 2015 compared to 2014. Maritech recorded $2.7 million of excess decommissioning costs to expense during the current year period. Maritech pretax loss during the current year decreased compared to the prior year, primarily due to the decreased gross loss discussed above. Corporate Overhead Year Ended December 31, Period to Period Change 2015 2014 2015 vs 2014 % Change (In Thousands, Except Percentages) Gross profit (loss) (primarily depreciation expense) $ (913 ) $ (1,725 ) $ 812 47.1 % General and administrative expense 52,189 41,139 11,050 26.9 % Interest (income) expense, net 18,654 19,268 (614 ) Other (income) expense, net 4,249 4,222 27 (Loss) before taxes and discontinued operations $ (76,005 ) $ (66,354 ) $ (9,651 ) (14.5 )% Corporate Overhead pretax loss increased during 2015 compared to the prior year, primarily due to increased general and administrative expense. Corporate general and administrative costs increased, primarily due to $15.8 million of increased salary related expenses, primarily from increased incentive and equity compensation. The increase in equity compensation includes the impact of a $6.7 million immaterial correction adjustment. This increase in salary and related expenses was partially offset by approximately $3.4 million of increased costs allocated to other segments, $0.8 million of decreased professional fees, and $0.5 million decrease in employee expenses. Interest expense decreased due to decreased TETRA borrowings outstanding during the current period, however, is expected to increase going forward following the November 2015 issuance of the Series 2015 Senior Notes. 44 2014 Compared to 2013 Consolidated Comparisons Year Ended December 31, Period to Period Change 2014 2013 2014 vs 2013 % Change (In Thousands, Except Percentages) Revenues $ 1,077,567 $ 909,398 $ 168,169 18.5 % Gross profit 95,044 135,392 (40,348 ) (29.8 )% Gross profit as a percentage of revenue 8.8 % 14.9 % General and administrative expense 142,689 131,466 11,223 8.5 % General and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue 13.2 % 14.5 % Goodwill impairment 64,295 64,295 Interest expense, net 31,998 17,121 14,877 (Gain) loss on sale of assets (11 ) (5,776 ) 5,765 Other (income) expense, net 13,944 (7,291 ) 21,235 Income (loss) before taxes and discontinued operations (157,871 ) (128 ) (157,743 ) Income (loss) before taxes and discontinued operations as a percentage of revenue (14.7 )% % Provision (benefit) for income taxes 9,704 (3,454 ) 13,158 Income (loss) before discontinued operations (167,575 ) 3,326 (170,901 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes (1 ) 1 Net income (loss) (167,575 ) 3,325 (170,900 ) Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest (2,103 ) (3,172 ) 1,069 Net income (loss) attributable to TETRA stockholders $ (169,678 ) $ 153 $ (169,831 ) Consolidated revenues during 2014 increased compared to 2013 due to increased revenues of our Compression and Fluids Divisions. Our Compression Division reflected record revenues due to the significant impact of its August 4, 2014, acquisition of CSI. The acquired operations of CSI, which generated approximately $152.5 million of revenues subsequent to the August 4, 2014, acquisition closing date, significantly expands the scope of our Compression Division, which now provides a full range of compression products and services that cover compression needs throughout the entire natural gas production and transportation cycle. Growth of the Fluids Division's onshore water management business and the increased sales of its manufactured products resulted in record revenues for this segment during 2014. However, these increases were partially offset by decreased activity by our Offshore Services and Production Testing Divisions. Offshore Services experienced decreased demand throughout 2014 for all of its services, including heavy lift, contract diving, and well abandonment businesses. Production Testing showed improved revenues during the last half of 2014 compared to 2013, as it continued to replace decreased activity by certain significant customers. Consolidated gross profit decreased, despite the increased profitability of the Compression Division, primarily due to the decreased Offshore Services and Production Testing profitability that reflected the decreased demand for services and the impact of approximately $34.8 million of asset impairments during the fourth quarter of 2014. Similar to 2013, Maritech recorded charges to earnings of approximately $73.2 million for excess decommissioning costs during 2014 , largely due to remediation work determined to be required on previously abandoned wells. Consolidated general and administrative expenses increased during 2014 compared to 2013 due to increased Compression Division expenses associated with the acquired operations of CSI, as well as approximately $8.7 million of consolidated transaction costs, primarily for the CSI Acquisition. Decreased general and administrative expenses during 2014 for our Production Testing, Maritech, Offshore Services, and Corporate Divisions compared to 2013 reflect overall cost reduction efforts, which consisted of headcount reductions and other reduced employee-related expenses. Following the fourth quarter of 2014, we performed an annual test of goodwill impairment in accordance with ASC 350-20. During the last half of 2014, global oil and natural gas commodity prices, particularly oil, decreased significantly. This decrease in commodity prices is expected to have a negative impact on industry 45 drilling and capital expenditure activity, which affects the demand for products and services of each of our reporting units. This expected decreased demand particularly affects the future levels of revenues and cash flows of our Production Testing and Offshore Services reporting units, which were experiencing challenging market conditions prior to mid-2014. The accompanying decrease in our stock price during the last half of 2014 has also caused an overall reduction in our market capitalization. As part of the test of goodwill impairment, we estimated the fair value of each our reporting units, and determined, based on these estimated values, that an impairment of the goodwill of our Production Testing and Offshore Services reporting units was necessary, primarily due to the market factors discussed above. Accordingly, during the fourth quarter of 2014, we recorded total impairment charges of $64.3 million associated with the goodwill of these reporting units. Consolidated interest expense increased due to increased borrowings, primarily related to Compression borrowings under CCLP's new revolving credit facility and 7.25% Senior Notes, which were used to fund a portion of the CSI Acquisition purchase price. Consolidated gains on sale of assets decreased during 2014, primarily due to the sale by Maritech of one of its remaining oil and gas properties during 2013. Consolidated other expense was approximately $13.9 million during 2014 compared to $6.3 million of other income during the prior year. In connection with the CSI Acquisition, our Compression Division incurred approximately $9.3 million of one-time interim financing costs during 2014. The current year other expense was recorded despite a $5.7 million gain associated with the first quarter of 2014 acquisition of the interest in TETRA Arabia that we did not previously own. This gain was partially offset by a $2.9 million charge associated with the settlement of the pre-existing relationship with the other shareholder. Other income was recorded during 2013, as prior to the acquisition of the remaining interest of TETRA Arabia, the net earnings from TETRA Arabia were included in other income. Despite the significant pre-tax loss for the year ended December 31, 2014, we recorded a provision for income tax during the year, primarily due to the recording of a valuation allowance on U.S. federal deferred tax assets in the amount of approximately $69.9 million as well as an additional valuation allowance on a portion of our state and foreign deferred tax assets. We establish a valuation allowance to reduce the deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. We considered all available evidence, both positive and negative, in determining whether, based on the weight of that evidence, a valuation allowance is needed for some portion or all of our deferred tax assets. In determining the need for a valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets, we placed greater weight on recent and objectively verifiable current information, as compared to more forward-looking information that is used in valuing other assets on the balance sheet or making going concern determinations. Divisional Comparisons Fluids Division Year Ended December 31, Period to Period Change 2014 2013 2014 vs 2013 % Change (In Thousands, Except Percentages) Revenues $ 437,362 $ 382,663 $ 54,699 14.3 % Gross profit 97,806 100,106 (2,300 ) (2.3 )% Gross profit as a percentage of revenue 22.4 % 26.2 % General and administrative expense 35,625 32,648 2,977 9.1 % General and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue 8.1 % 8.5 % Interest (income) expense, net (250 ) (148 ) (102 ) Other (income) expense, net (2,274 ) (1,832 ) (442 ) Income before taxes and discontinued operations $ 64,705 $ 69,438 $ (4,733 ) (6.8 )% Income before taxes and discontinued operations as a percentage of revenue 14.8 % 18.1 % 46 The increase in Fluids Division revenues during 2014 compared to 2013 was primarily due to approximately $41.1 million of increased services revenues, largely due to increased water management services revenue, which includes the impact of the January 2014 acquisition of TD Water Transfer and the continuing growth of our water management business, despite increased competition. Fluids Division revenues also increased due to the growth of our foreign completion services revenues, including approximately $13.3 million due to the January 2014 acquisition of the additional 50% interest in TETRA Arabia that resulted in this entity becoming a wholly owned consolidated subsidiary. The Fluids Division also reported approximately $13.6 million of increased product sales revenues due to increased demand for calcium chloride products, both in the U.S. and in Europe. This increase in manufactured products sales revenues was partially offset by decreased CBF product sales, as increases in foreign and U.S. onshore CBF product sales revenues were more than offset by decreased U.S. offshore CBF product sales revenues that were primarily caused by customer operational delays. Fluids Division gross profit decreased during 2014 compared to 2013, primarily due to the impact of the reduced Gulf of Mexico CBF activity, as well as from increased competition and operating costs for our water management business. This decrease more than offset the increased gross profit associated with foreign CBF product sales and the consolidation of TETRA Arabia. In addition, gross profit was negatively impacted by approximately $2.1 million of charges to earnings for unused water management inventory and $6.5 million of long-lived asset impairments, primarily associated with expected decreased utilization of certain water management equipment and our Brazil CBF facility, which suspended its operation due to the termination of its customer CBF product sales contract during 2014. Fluids Division income before taxes decreased during 2014 compared to 2013 due to the decrease in gross profit discussed above and due to increased general and administrative costs. Fluids Division administrative costs increased primarily due to increased personnel-related costs, partially offset by decreased professional fee expenses. Other income increased during 2014 due to a $2.7 million allocated portion of the remeasurement gain recorded from the January 2014 acquisition of the remaining interest in TETRA Arabia. In connection with this acquisition, we recorded a $5.7 million consolidated gain from the fair value remeasurement of our previous investment in TETRA Arabia. Prior to this acquisition, the Fluids Division recorded its share of the earnings from the unconsolidated TETRA Arabia subsidiary in other income. Production Testing Division Year Ended December 31, Period to Period Change 2014 2013 2014 vs 2013 % Change (In Thousands, Except Percentages) Revenues $ 192,894 $ 195,983 $ (3,089 ) (1.6 )% Gross profit 12,622 29,566 (16,944 ) (57.3 )% Gross profit as a percentage of revenue 6.5 % 15.1 % General and administrative expense 20,512 24,671 (4,159 ) (16.9 )% General and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue 10.6 % 12.6 % Goodwill impairment 60,358 60,358 Interest (income) expense, net (31 ) (34 ) 3 Other (income) expense, net (2,061 ) (9,164 ) 7,103 Income (loss) before taxes and discontinued operations $ (66,156 ) $ 14,093 $ (80,249 ) (569.4 )% Income (loss) before taxes and discontinued operations as a percentage of revenue (34.3 )% 7.2 % Production Testing revenues decreased during 2014 compared to 2013, primarily due to the impact of decreased activity by customers in certain key U.S. markets. The Production Testing Division continues to expand its domestic customer base, however, and fourth quarter 2014 domestic revenues increased compared to 2013. The Production Testing Division also continued to capitalize on the increased activity in certain shale reservoir markets. Additionally, the impact of increased competition during 2014 negatively affected pricing and activity levels for services in selected markets in the U.S. These decreases were partially offset by increased revenues from foreign activity, including approximately $24.8 million of increased revenues resulting from our January 2014 47 acquisition of the 50% ownership interest in TETRA Arabia that we did not previously own and which resulted in TETRA Arabia becoming a wholly owned consolidated subsidiary. Production Testing gross profit decreased significantly during 2014 compared to 2013 due to the impact of pricing competition and the above mentioned decreased activity levels in certain U.S. markets. The impact of the decreased U.S. gross profit more than offset the increased gross profit resulting from the consolidation of TETRA Arabia. In addition, during the fourth quarter of 2014, Production Testing gross profit includes the negative impact of approximately $14.5 million for certain equipment and intangible asset impairments, as the fair values for these long-lived assets were negatively affected by an expected decrease in utilization, demand, and future cash flows. In response to the decreased activity in certain U.S. markets, during the first quarter of 2014, we took steps to downsize field operations, reduce operating headcount, and implement other cost reductions for the Production Testing Division. Production Testing income (loss) before taxes decreased significantly during 2014 compared to 2013, primarily due to the impairment of a portion of Production Testing Division goodwill during the fourth quarter of 2014, pursuant to ASC 350-20, and due to the significant decrease in gross profit discussed above. In addition, other income decreased due to the consolidation of the TETRA Arabia subsidiary following our January 2014 acquisition of the remaining 50% ownership interest. Prior to the acquisition, the Production Testing Division recorded its share of earnings from the unconsolidated TETRA Arabia subsidiary in other income. In connection with this acquisition, we recorded a $5.7 million consolidated gain from the fair value remeasurement of our previous investment in TETRA Arabia. The Production Testing Division's portion of this gain was $3.0 million and was largely offset by an approximately $2.9 million charge to earnings related to the termination of our preexisting relationship with the owner of the other 50% interest. Production Testing Division general and administrative expenses decreased despite the consolidation of TETRA Arabia and increased legal expenses incurred during the period due to the impact of cost reductions. Compression Division Year Ended December 31, Period to Period Change 2014 2013 2014 vs 2013 % Change (In Thousands, Except Percentages) Revenues $ 282,505 $ 121,288 $ 161,217 132.9 % Gross profit 66,527 38,726 27,801 71.8 % Gross profit as a percentage of revenue 23.5 % 31.9 % General and administrative expense 31,969 17,353 14,616 84.2 % General and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue 11.3 % 14.3 % Interest (income) expense, net 12,964 469 12,495 Other (income) expense, net 14,254 704 13,550 Income before taxes and discontinued operations $ 7,340 $ 20,200 $ (12,860 ) (63.7 )% Income before taxes and discontinued operations as a percentage of revenue 2.6 % 16.7 % Compression Division revenues increased significantly during 2014 compared to 2013 primarily due to the acquisition of CSI, which generated approximately $152.5 million of aggregate revenues subsequent to the August 4, 2014, closing date. Approximately $86.0 million of increased compression service revenues were generated by the compression services and aftermarket services of CSI, and approximately $7.4 million of the increase was due to increased non-CSI service revenues due to increased activity in the U.S. Non-CSI U.S. service revenues increased due to increased low-horsepower compression services activity, primarily in liquids-rich resource play reservoirs. Revenues from the sales of compressor packages and parts during 2014 increased $66.5 million compared to 2013, with the increase associated with CSI operations. Compression Division gross profit increased during 2014 compared to 2013 also, primarily due to the impact of the CSI Acquisition, which generated approximately $23.2 million of gross profit during the period subsequent to the August 4, 2014, closing date. CSI gross profit includes the impact on depreciation and amortization expense from the preliminary allocation of the acquisition purchase price. 48 Income before taxes for the Compression Division decreased during 2014 compared to 2013, primarily due to non-recurring charges to earnings in connection with the CSI Acquisition, including the impact on general and administrative expenses from approximately $6.4 million of legal, acquisition consulting, other professional fees, and other CSI Acquisition transaction related expenses. In addition, general and administrative expenses increased due to the additional administrative and executive personnel and expenses associated with CSI's operations as well as approximately $0.7 million of increased corporate allocated costs and $1.2 million for implementation costs of new enterprise system software. Other expense increased significantly, primarily due to approximately $9.3 million of interim financing commitment fees that were incurred by CCLP and by CSI Compressco GP Inc. in connection with the CSI Acquisition. In addition, approximately $0.8 million of unamortized financing costs associated with CCLP's previous bank credit facility were charged to other expense during 2014 upon its cancellation in connection with CCLP's new bank credit facility. Interest expense increased significantly as a result of the issuance of the CCLP Senior Notes and the increased borrowings by CCLP under its new bank credit facility in connection with the August 4, 2014 CSI Acquisition. Offshore Division Offshore Services Segment Year Ended December 31, Period to Period Change 2014 2013 2014 vs 2013 % Change (In Thousands, Except Percentages) Revenues $ 195,372 $ 255,812 $ (60,440 ) (23.6 )% Gross profit (10,314 ) 36,147 (46,461 ) (128.5 )% Gross profit as a percentage of revenue (5.3 )% 14.1 % General and administrative expense 12,097 13,386 (1,289 ) (9.6 )% General and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue 6.2 % 5.2 % Goodwill impairment 3,936 3,936 Interest (income) expense, net 36 109 (73 ) Other (income) expense, net (132 ) (218 ) 86 Income (loss) before taxes and discontinued operations $ (26,251 ) $ 22,870 $ (49,121 ) (214.8 )% Income (loss) before taxes and discontinued operations as a percentage of revenue (13.4 )% 8.9 % Revenues for the Offshore Services segment decreased during 2014 compared to 2013 due to decreased revenues, primarily from its heavy lift, diving services, and well abandonment services businesses. The heavy lift business was also negatively affected by unseasonal weather during the first half of 2014 and by drydock operations performed during the first quarter of 2014 on the TETRA Hedron and TETRA Arapaho derrick barges. Decreased dive services and well abandonment activity levels in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico reflected an overall decrease in demand in this market, partly due to property acquisitions by key customers which have resulted in a postponement of certain well abandonment projects. Offshore Services revenues during 2014 were also affected by the reduction in work performed for our Maritech segment compared to the prior year, with $30.6 million of such work during the current year compared to $50.1 million of revenues related to work performed for Maritech during the prior year. Offshore Services reported a gross loss during 2014 due to the decreased revenues as discussed above. In addition, during the fourth quarter of 2014, Offshore Services reflected approximately $13.7 million of impairments, primarily for certain heavy lift and dive support vessels and associated equipment assets, as the fair values for these assets were negatively affected by an expected decrease in utilization and demand. The Offshore Services gross loss was incurred despite the impact of cost reduction measures that were implemented during the first half of 2013 and that continued in 2014. Offshore Services loss before taxes is due to the gross loss discussed above and due to the impairment of Offshore Services goodwill during the fourth quarter of 2014 pursuant to ASC 350-20. General and administrative 49 expense levels reflect the segment's administrative cost reductions taken during the first half of 2013 and during 2014, and decreased despite approximately $0.5 million of increased bad debt expense. Maritech Segment Year Ended December 31, Period to Period Change 2014 2013 2014 vs 2013 % Change (In Thousands, Except Percentages) Revenues $ 4,722 $ 5,560 $ (838 ) (15.1 )% Gross profit (loss) (69,861 ) (66,828 ) (3,033 ) (4.5 )% General and administrative expense 1,359 2,902 (1,543 ) (53.2 )% General and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue 28.8 % 52.2 % Interest (income) expense, net 11 11 (Gain) loss on sales of assets (77 ) (5,378 ) 5,301 Other (income) expense, net Loss before taxes and discontinued operations $ (71,154 ) $ (64,363 ) $ (6,791 ) (10.6 )% As a result of the sale of almost all of its producing properties during 2011 and 2012, Maritech revenues during 2014 and 2013 were negligible and are expected to continue to be negligible going forward. Maritech gross loss increased during 2014 compared to 2013, primarily due to an approximately $5.6 million credit against operating expenses during 2013 associated with the net impact of an insurance-related litigation settlement in the first quarter of 2013. Maritech charged approximately $73.2 million of additional and excess decommissioning costs to expense during 2014, which reflects a $2.1 million decrease for these costs compared to 2013. Approximately $39.2 million of the $73.2 million total additional and excess decommissioning costs expensed during 2014 was due to current and future additional well abandonment work required for remediation of certain wells under pressure that were previously plugged. The increase in Maritech pretax loss during 2014 compared to 2013 is primarily due to the decreased gross loss discussed above and due to the significant decrease in other income, as during 2013 Maritech sold its interest in one of its remaining offshore oil and gas properties, resulting in a gain of approximately $5.4 million. Maritech administrative costs decreased compared to the prior year period due to legal expenses recorded during 2013 primarily associated with the insurance-related litigation settlement. Corporate Overhead Year Ended December 31, Period to Period Change 2014 2013 2014 vs 2013 % Change (In Thousands, Except Percentages) Gross profit (loss) (primarily depreciation expense) $ (1,725 ) $ (2,327 ) $ 602 25.9 % General and administrative expense 41,139 40,506 633 1.6 % Interest (income) expense, net 19,268 16,715 2,553 Other (income) expense, net 4,222 2,711 1,511 Loss before taxes and discontinued operations $ (66,354 ) $ (62,259 ) $ (4,095 ) (6.6 )% Corporate Overhead pretax loss increased during 2014 compared to 2013, primarily due to increased corporate interest expense and other expense. Increased interest expense was due to increased borrowings outstanding during 2014, including the impact of corporate borrowings in connection with the CSI Acquisition. Increased other expense was primarily due to increased foreign currency exchange losses. Corporate general and administrative expenses increased, as approximately $1.5 million of increased professional expenses, including approximately $0.6 million of transaction related expenses, approximately $2.0 million of increased salary and related expenses, and approximately $1.3 million of general expenses were largely offset by approximately $2.5 50 million of decreased insurance expense and approximately $1.7 million of additional expenses allocated to other segments. Liquidity and Capital Resources Throughout 2015, and continuing into early 2016, significant decreases in oil and natural gas commodity prices have lowered the capital expenditure and operating plans of many of our customers, creating additional uncertainty regarding the expected demand for many of our products and services and the resulting cash flows from operating activities for the foreseeable future. In addition, the availability of new borrowings in the current capital markets is more limited and costly. Accordingly, throughout 2015 and early 2016, we have implemented strategic cost reduction measures designed to lower our cost structure in the current environment and have taken other steps to improve our operating cash flows. We continue to review the cost structure of each of our businesses and seek additional steps, as necessary, to reduce costs to respond to the current, low commodity price environment. On November 20, 2015, pursuant to the 2015 Senior Note Purchase Agreement with GSO Tetra Holdings LP, an unrelated third party, we issued and sold $125.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our Series 2015 Senior Notes. Immediately after the closing and funding, we applied a portion of the $119.7 million proceeds from the sale of the Series 2015 Senior Notes (consisting of $125.0 million aggregate principal amount net of a $5.0 million discount and certain financing costs) to repay all of the indebtedness for borrowed money outstanding under our Credit Agreement. In December 2015, we applied the remaining portion of the proceeds, together with other funds to (i) pay the $25.0 million purchase price for certain of our Series 2010 Senior Notes accepted for purchase pursuant to the Tender Offer, (ii) prepay in full all amounts owed in respect of the outstanding Series 2006-A Senior Notes due April 30, 2016, and (iii) pay other fees and expenses associated with the transactions contemplated under the Series 2015 Senior Note Purchase Agreement. In addition, we entered into an amendment of the Senior Secured Note Purchase Agreement, resulting in the extension of the maturity date of the $50.0 million of Senior Secured Notes from 2017 to 2019. As a result of these transactions, we have repaid and extended the maturity dates of a significant portion of TETRA's total long-term debt without significantly increasing the amount of TETRA's net borrowings. In addition, we will continue to consider certain additional financing transactions with a view of generating additional cash to reduce the amount of our outstanding borrowings under our Credit Agreement, repay or refinance additional amounts of our Senior Notes, and generate additional liquidity. We believe the steps taken, including the cost reduction steps discussed above, have enhanced our capital structure and operating cash flows and will continue to enhance our operating cash flows in the future. As a result, we believe that despite the current industry environment and activity levels, we will have adequate liquidity to fund our operations and debt obligations and maintain compliance with debt covenants through December 31, 2016. However, we cannot predict how an extended period of low oil and gas prices will affect our operations and liquidity levels. Despite a challenging market environment for a number of our businesses, our consolidated cash flows from operating activities increased during 2015 compared to the prior year. This increase was due to a number of factors, including the growth of certain of our businesses, the CSI Acquisition, the impact of cost reduction efforts, and a reduction in Maritech abandonment and decommissioning activities compared to the prior year. Approximately $101.9 million of our consolidated operating cash flows during the year ended December 31, 2015 , were generated by CCLP, and we received approximately $30.5 million of distributions from CCLP during the year ended December 31, 2015 , compared to $24.1 million during the corresponding prior year. Excluding the cash flows from operating activities of CCLP, our cash flows from operating activities, together with the borrowings available under our Credit Agreement and our share of distributions from CCLP, are expected to be adequate to fund our capital expenditures and debt service requirements through December 31, 2016. A portion of the increased operating cash flows of CCLP following the CSI Acquisition are used by CCLP to pay the debt service requirements of the CCLP Senior Notes and CCLP Credit Agreement. CCLP continues to review its anticipated operating activity levels in the current low commodity price environment and its impact on the expected levels of distributable cash flows in determining the amount of its quarterly distributions. The amount of distributions we received from CCLP, including the impact of the incentive distribution rights owned by our wholly owned CSI Compressco GP Inc. subsidiary, resulted in an increase in the quarterly distributions we received from CCLP during 2015 compared to the prior year. In January 2016, however, the board of directors of CSI Compressco GP Inc. (CCLP's general partner) declared a cash distribution attributable to the quarter ended December 31, 2015 , of $0.3775 per unit, which represents a decrease of $0.1250 per unit compared to the previous quarterly distribution. The amount of quarterly distributions is determined based on a variety of factors, including estimates of CCLP's cash needs to fund its future operating, investing, and debt service requirements. During the current period of low oil and natural gas pricing, there can be no assurance that quarterly distributions from CCLP will increase from this reduced amount per unit or that there will not be future decreases in the amount of distributions going forward. Our ability to meet 51 our financial obligations and fund future growth is dependent on future levels of consolidated operating cash flows and the availability of capital resources in uncertain operating and financial markets. Our consolidated sources and uses of cash during each of the following years are as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 (In Thousands) Operating activities $ 195,951 $ 108,645 $ 49,656 Investing activities (114,987 ) (967,739 ) (100,025 ) Financing activities (103,437 ) 871,644 15,734 Our consolidated capital structure changed significantly during 2014 as a result of the CSI Acquisition. Because of the increased level of consolidated debt, it is important to consider TETRA's capital structure and CCLP's capital structure separately, as we have no cross default provisions, cross collateralization provisions, or cross guarantees with CCLP's debt, nor does CCLP with TETRA's debt. CCLP is not a restricted subsidiary or guarantor under any of our debt or credit agreements. (See Financing Activities section below for a complete discussion of the terms of TETRA's and CCLP's respective debt arrangements.) Our consolidated debt outstanding has a carrying value of approximately $873.5 million as of December 31, 2015 . However, approximately $580.5 million of this consolidated debt balance is owed by CCLP and is serviced from the existing cash balances and cash flows of CCLP. Through our 44% ownership interest in CCLP and ownership of incentive distribution rights, we receive our share of the distributable cash flows of CCLP through its quarterly distributions. Approximately $10.6 million of the $23.1 million of the cash balance reflected on our consolidated balance sheet is owned by CCLP and is not available to us. As of December 31, 2015 , CCLP had availability of approximately $163.4 million under the CCLP Credit Agreement, subject to limitations, and we had availability of approximately $194.6 million under our Credit Agreement. Operating Activities Cash flows generated by operating activities totaled $196.0 million during 2015 compared to $108.6 million during the prior year, an increase of $87.3 million . This increase in operating cash flows was due to the increased cash impact of earnings (excluding non-cash charges) compared to the prior year, including the cash impact of the acquired CSI operations. In addition, operating cash flows also increased due to the decrease in the amount spent on Maritech decommissioning activity, as approximately $10.3 million of decommissioning activity was performed during the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to $63.3 million during the prior year. We have taken steps to aggressively manage working capital, including with regard to the collection of receivables and monitoring of inventory levels. We continue to monitor customer credit risk in the current environment and have historically focused on serving larger capitalized oil and gas operators and national oil companies. Demand for a large portion of our products and services is driven by oil and gas industry activity, which is affected by oil and natural gas commodity pricing. The dramatic decreases in oil and natural gas prices during 2015, particularly oil prices, significantly reduced the capital expenditure and operating plans of our oil and gas customers, affecting each of our operating segments. Oil and natural gas prices have been volatile in the past and are expected to continue to be volatile in the future. Worldwide drilling activity related to oil and natural gas wells has decreased, particularly affecting our Production Testing and Fluids Divisions. In addition, portions of our Compression Division and Offshore Services Division operations are also highly vulnerable to the impact of a sustained low natural gas price environment. A large portion of our consolidated cash flows generated by operating activities during 2015 resulted from equipment and product sales and specific customer projects that may not recur in 2016 at current oil and natural gas pricing levels. If oil and gas industry activity levels remain at current levels or decrease in the future, we expect that our levels of operating cash flows will be negatively affected. During 2015, we continued to take steps to reduce operating and administrative headcount, defer salary increases, and implement other cost reductions for each of our segments. These steps are designed to further streamline our operations and downsize our organization, particularly in response to continuing market challenges for certain of our businesses. Together with the specific cost reduction steps taken during prior periods, these cost reduction efforts have resulted in increased operating cash flows and improved profitability. During the first two months of 2016, we have continued to review our overall operating and administrative cost structure, resulting in 52 additional headcount reductions and reduced salaries, and we will continue to review for other opportunities to reduce costs. As of December 31, 2015 , Maritech decommissioning liabilities associated with its remaining offshore oil and gas production wells, platforms, and facilities totaled approximately $48.4 million . Approximately $14.6 million of this amount is expected to be performed during the twelve month period ended December 31, 2016, with the timing of a portion of this work being discretionary. Until the remaining decommissioning liabilities are extinguished, our future operating cash flows will continue to be affected by Maritech decommissioning expenditures as they are incurred. Included in Maritech decommissioning liabilities is the remaining abandonment, decommissioning, and debris removal associated with an offshore platform that was previously destroyed by a hurricane as well as certain remediation work required on wells that were previously plugged. Due to the unique nature of the remaining work to be performed associated with these properties, actual costs could greatly exceed these estimates and could therefore result in significant charges to earnings in future periods. Asset retirement obligations are recorded in accordance with FASB ASC 410, whereby the estimated fair value of a liability for asset retirement obligations is recorded in the period in which it is incurred and in which a reasonable estimate can be made. Such estimates are based on relevant assumptions that we believe are reasonable. The cost estimates for Maritech asset retirement obligations are considered reasonable estimates consistent with market conditions at the time they are made, and we believe reflect the amount of work required to be performed in accordance with BSEE standards, as revised from time to time. The amount of work performed or estimated to be performed on a Maritech property asset retirement obligation often exceeds amounts previously estimated for numerous reasons including physical subsea, geological, or downhole conditions that are different from those anticipated at the time of estimation due to the age of the property and the quality of information available about the particular property conditions. Maritech remaining oil and gas properties and production platforms were drilled and constructed by other operators many years ago, and frequently there is not a great deal of detailed documentation on which to base the estimated asset retirement obligation for these properties. Appropriate underwater surveys are typically performed to determine the condition of such properties as part of our due diligence in estimating the costs, but not all conditions have been able to be determined prior to the commencement of the actual work. During the performance of asset retirement activities, unforeseen weather or other conditions may also extend the duration and increase the cost of the projects, which are normally not done on a fixed price basis, thereby resulting in costs in excess of the original estimate. Maritech has one remaining property that was damaged by a hurricane in the past, leaving the production platform toppled on the seabed and production tubing from the wells (which may be under pressure) bent underwater. While the basic procedures involved in the plugging and abandonment of wells and decommissioning of platforms and pipelines and removal of debris is generally similar for these types of properties, the cost of performing work at these damaged locations is particularly difficult to estimate due to the unique conditions encountered, including the uncertainty regarding the extent of physical damage to many of the structures. In addition, Maritech has encountered situations where previously plugged and abandoned wells on its properties have later exhibited a buildup of pressure that is evidenced by gas bubbles coming from the plugged well head. We refer to this situation as wells under pressure , and this can either be discovered by us when we perform additional work at the property or by notification from a third party. Wells under pressure require Maritech to return to the site to perform additional plug and abandonment procedures that were not originally anticipated or included in the estimate of the asset retirement obligation for such property. Remediation work at previously abandoned well sites is particularly costly due to the lack of a platform from which to base these activities. Maritech is the last operator of record for its plugged wells and bears the risk of additional future work required as a result of wells becoming under pressure in the future. For oil and gas properties previously operated by Maritech, the purchaser of the properties generally became the successor operator and assumed the financial responsibilities associated with the properties operations and abandonment and decommissioning. However, to the extent that purchasers of these oil and gas properties fail to perform the abandonment and decommissioning work required and there is insufficient bonding or other security, the previous owners and operators of the properties, including Maritech, may be required to assume responsibility for the abandonment and decommissioning obligations. 53 Investing Activities During 2015 , the total amount of our net cash utilized on investing activities was $115.0 million . Total cash capital expenditures during 2015 were $120.6 million . Approximately $11.1 million of our capital expenditures during 2015 was spent by our Fluids Division, the majority of which related to chemical plant improvements. Our Production Testing Division spent approximately $7.8 million on capital expenditures, primarily to add to its international production testing equipment fleet. Our Compression Division spent approximately $95.6 million , primarily for the expansion of its compressor and equipment fleet for its CSI subsidiary. Our Offshore Services segment spent approximately $5.9 million on its various heavy lift barges and dive support vessels, primarily for required drydock expenditures. Generally, a significant majority of our planned capital expenditures has been related to identified opportunities to grow and expand certain of our existing businesses. However, certain of these planned expenditures have been, and may continue to be, postponed or canceled in an effort to conserve capital or otherwise address expected future market conditions. We currently have no long-term capital expenditure commitments and are reviewing all capital expenditure plans carefully during the current period of reduced demand for our products and services in an effort to conserve cash and fund our liquidity needs. The deferral of capital projects could affect our ability to compete in the future. Excluding the capital expenditures of our Compression Division, we expect to spend approximately $5 to $10 million during 2016. Our Compression Division expects to spend approximately $20 to $30 million during 2016. The level of future growth capital expenditures depends on forecasted demand for our products and services. If the forecasted demand for our products and services during 2016 increases or decreases, the amount of planned expenditures on growth and expansion will be adjusted accordingly. The level of capital expenditures during 2016 is also subject to the impact of possible acquisitions. Financing Activities To fund our capital and working capital requirements, we may supplement our existing cash balances and cash flow from operating activities as needed from long-term borrowings, short-term borrowings, operating leases, equity and debt issuances, and other sources of capital. Our Long-Term Debt We are in compliance with all covenants and conditions under our long-term debt agreements as of December 31, 2015. Our continuing ability to comply with these financial covenants depends largely upon our ability to generate adequate cash flow. Historically, our financial performance has been more than adequate to meet these covenants. Due to the decreased demand for certain of our products and services by our customers in response to decreased oil and natural gas prices, we have taken strategic cost reduction efforts, including headcount reductions, deferrals of wage increases, wage reductions, and other efforts to reduce costs and generate cash to mitigate the reduced demand for our products and services. In addition, certain of our businesses have seen increased activity and profitability levels, despite current oil and natural gas prices. We believe the steps taken have enhanced our capital structure and operating cash flows and will continue to enhance our operating cash flows in the future. Based on our projections for each of the quarterly periods in 2016 and including the impact of these cost reduction efforts and expected activity levels on future estimated operating cash flows, we anticipate that, despite the current industry environment and activity levels, we will have sufficient operating cash flows to maintain compliance with the financial covenants under our long-term debt agreements through December 31, 2016. However, we cannot predict how an extended period of low commodity prices will affect our operations and liquidity levels. Our Bank Credit Facility . As of March 3, 2016 , TETRA (excluding CCLP) had an outstanding balance on its revolving credit facility (the "Credit Agreement") of approximately $40.2 million , and had $7.6 million in letters of credit and guarantees against the revolving credit facility, leaving a net availability of $177.3 million . These amounts do not reflect the CCLP Credit Agreement, which is separate and distinct from TETRA's Credit Agreement. Under the Credit Agreement, which matures on September 30, 2019, the revolving credit facility is unsecured and guaranteed by certain of our material U.S. subsidiaries (excluding CCLP and its subsidiaries). Borrowings generally bear interest at the British Bankers Association LIBOR rate plus 1.50% to 2.75%, depending on one of our financial ratios. We pay a commitment fee ranging from 0.225% to 0.500% on unused portions of the facility. The Credit Agreement contains customary covenants and other restrictions, including certain financial ratio covenants based on our levels of debt and interest cost compared to a defined measure of our operating cash flows 54 over a twelve month period. In addition, the Credit Agreement includes limitations on aggregate asset sales, individual acquisitions, and aggregate annual acquisitions and capital expenditures. Access to our revolving credit line is dependent upon our compliance with the financial ratio covenants set forth in the Credit Agreement. These financial ratios include a minimum interest charge coverage ratio (ratio of a defined measure of earnings to interest) of 3.0 and a maximum leverage ratio (ratio of debt and letters of credit outstanding to a defined measure of earnings) of 3.25. The maximum leverage ratio decreases to 3.0 as of March 31, 2016. Consolidated net earnings under the Credit Agreement are defined as the aggregate of our net income (or loss) and our consolidated restricted subsidiaries (which does not include CCLP), including cash dividends and distributions (not the return of capital) received from persons other than consolidated restricted subsidiaries (including CCLP) and after allowances for taxes for such period determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), excluding certain items more specifically described therein. At December 31, 2015, our leverage ratio was 1.86 to 1, compared to 2.94 at December 31, 2014. Deterioration of these financial ratios could result in a default by us under the Credit Agreement that, if not remedied, could result in termination of the Credit Agreement and acceleration of any outstanding balances. CCLP is an unrestricted subsidiary and is not a borrower or a guarantor under the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement includes cross-default provisions relating to any other indebtedness (excluding indebtedness of CCLP) greater than a defined amount. The Credit Agreement also contains a covenant that restricts us from paying dividends in the event of a default or if such payment would result in an event of default. Our Senior Unsecured Notes . In April 2006, we issued $90.0 million in aggregate principal amount of Series 2006-A Senior Notes pursuant to our existing Master Note Purchase Agreement dated September 2004, as supplemented as of April 18, 2006. In December 2015, we utilized borrowings under our Credit Agreement to prepay in full all amounts owed in respect of the outstanding Series 2006-A Senior Notes, due April 30, 2016, including a $1.6 million "make-whole" prepayment premium in accordance with the Master Note Purchase Agreement. In December 2015, and pursuant to a Tender Offer that commenced on November 5, 2015, we purchased for cash $25.0 million aggregate principal amount of the outstanding 2010 Senior Notes, consisting of $18.1 million of the Series 2010-A Senior Notes and $6.9 million of the Series 2010-B Senior Notes. The offered consideration for Series 2010 Senior Notes was an amount of cash equal to $100,000 per $100,000 principal amount of Series 2010 Senior Notes tendered prior to December 7, 2015, and accepted for purchase by us, plus accrued and unpaid interest. On November 20, 2015, pursuant to the 2015 Senior Note Purchase Agreement with GSO Tetra Holdings LP, an unrelated third party, we issued and sold $125.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our Series 2015 Senior Notes. Immediately after the closing and funding, we applied a portion of the $119.7 million net proceeds from the sale of the Series 2015 Senior Notes (consisting of $125.0 million aggregate principal amount net of a $5.0 million discount and certain financing costs) to repay all of the indebtedness for borrowed money outstanding under our Credit Agreement. In December 2015, we applied the remaining portion of the proceeds, together with other funds to (i) pay the $25.0 million purchase price for certain of our 2010 Senior Notes accepted for purchase pursuant to the Tender Offer, (ii) prepay in full all amounts owed in respect of the outstanding Series 2006-A Senior Notes due April 30, 2016 and (iii) pay other fees and expenses associated with the transactions contemplated under the 2015 Senior Note Purchase Agreement. Each of the Senior Notes (the "Senior Unsecured Notes") was sold in the United States to accredited investors pursuant to an exemption from the Securities Act of 1933. The Senior Unsecured Notes are unsecured and are guaranteed by substantially all of our wholly owned U.S. subsidiaries. The 2015 Senior Note Purchase Agreement and the Note Purchase Agreements (together, "the Senior Unsecured Note Purchase Agreements"), contain customary covenants that limit our ability and the ability of certain of our restricted subsidiaries to, among other things: incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; incur or create liens; merge or consolidate or sell substantially all of our assets; engage in a different business; enter into transactions with affiliates; and make certain payments. In addition, the Senior Unsecured Note Purchase Agreements require us to maintain certain financial ratios, including a maximum leverage ratio (ratio of debt and letters of credit outstanding to a defined measure of earnings) of 3.5 . Consolidated net earnings under the Senior Unsecured Note Purchase Agreements is the aggregate of our net income (or loss) and our consolidated restricted subsidiaries, including cash dividends and distributions (not the return of capital) received from persons other than consolidated restricted subsidiaries (such as CCLP) and after allowances for taxes for such period determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, excluding certain items more specifically described therein. Under 55 these Senior Unsecured Note Purchase Agreements, the financial ratio requirements include a minimum interest coverage ratio of 2.5 and a maximum leverage ratio of 3.5 . At December 31, 2015, our leverage ratio was 1.86 to 1. Deterioration of the financial ratios could result in a default by us under the Senior Unsecured Note Purchase Agreements and, if not remedied, could result in termination of the Senior Unsecured Note Purchase Agreements and acceleration of any outstanding balances. CCLP is an unrestricted subsidiary and is not a borrower or a guarantor under our Senior Unsecured Note Purchase Agreements. The Senior Unsecured Note Purchase Agreements contain the following cross-default provisions. If we or any of our restricted subsidiaries (i) fails to make any payment when due beyond any applicable grace period under any indebtedness of at least $20.0 million, (ii) defaults in the performance of or compliance with any term of any indebtedness in an aggregate outstanding principal amount of at least $20.0 million or of any mortgage, indenture or other agreement relating to such indebtedness or any other condition exists, and as a result of such default or condition such indebtedness is accelerated and declared due and payable before its stated maturity or before its regularly scheduled dates for payment, or (iii) become obligated to purchase or repay indebtedness before its regular maturity or before its regularly scheduled dates of payment in an aggregate outstanding principal amount of at least $20.0 million or one or more persons have the right to require us or any of our subsidiaries to purchase or repay such indebtedness. Upon the occurrence and during the continuation of an event of default under the Senior Unsecured Note Purchase Agreements, the Senior Unsecured Notes may become immediately due and payable, either automatically or by declaration of holders of more than 50% in principal amount of the Senior Notes at the time outstanding. We are in compliance with all covenants and conditions of the Senior Unsecured Note Purchase Agreements as of December 31, 2015. Our Senior Secured Notes . On April 30, 2015, and pursuant to a Note Purchase Agreement dated March 18, 2015 with Wells Fargo Energy Capital, Inc., in its capacity as noteholder representative for the noteholders (the "Noteholder Representative"), and Wells Fargo Energy Capital, Inc., in its capacity as the sole initial purchaser (the "Senior Secured Note Purchase Agreement"), we issued and sold $50.0 million aggregate principal amount of Senior Secured Notes due April 1, 2017 (the "Senior Secured Notes"). In February 2016, we repaid $10.0 million of the amount outstanding under the Senior Secured Notes. The Senior Secured Notes were sold in a private placement exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). The proceeds from these Senior Secured Notes were used to provide a portion of the funds necessary to repay the $90.0 million principal amount of the Series 2008-B Senior Notes that matured on April 30, 2015 . The Senior Secured Notes are secured by our accounts receivable (excluding CCLP accounts receivable) and our common units in CCLP, and the Senior Secured Note Purchase Agreement includes financial covenants consistent with those applicable to our existing bank revolving credit facility. The Note Purchase Agreement contains customary covenants and default and cross default provisions consistent with the agreements governing our other TETRA indebtedness. On November 5, 2015, we entered into the Second Amendment (the Second Amendment ) to the Note Purchase Agreement that, conditioned upon the closing and funding of the issuance of the Series 2015 Senior Notes, (i) provided for the extension of the maturity date of the Senior Secured Notes from April 1, 2017 to April 1, 2019 , (ii) amended certain definitions in the Note Purchase Agreement and (iii) required us to pay an extension fee. CCLP Long-Term Debt CCLP Bank Credit Facility . On August 4, 2014, in connection with the CSI Acquisition, CCLP entered into a credit agreement (the "CCLP Credit Agreement"), and it borrowed $210.0 million, which was used to fund, in part, CCLP's $825.0 million CSI Acquisition purchase price. In addition, the CCLP Credit Agreement borrowings were used to pay fees and expenses related to the CSI Acquisition, the CCLP Senior Notes offering, and the CCLP Credit Agreement, and to repay the $38.1 million balance outstanding under CCLP's previous revolving credit facility dated October 15, 2013, (the "Previous CCLP Credit Agreement"), which was then terminated. Under the CCLP Credit Agreement, CCLP and CSI Compressco Sub Inc. are named as the borrowers, and all obligations under the CCLP Credit Agreement are guaranteed by all of CCLP's existing and future, direct and indirect, domestic restricted subsidiaries (other than domestic subsidiaries that are wholly owned by foreign subsidiaries). We are not a borrower or a guarantor under the CCLP Credit Agreement. The CCLP Credit Agreement matures on August 15, 2019 and includes a maximum credit commitment of $400.0 million, and included within such amount is availability for letters of credit (with a sublimit of $20.0 million) and swingline loans (with a sublimit of $60.0 million). The amount of borrowings under the CCLP Credit Agreement is subject to certain 56 limitations, including borrowing limitations as a result of financial covenants. As of February 29, 2016, CCLP had a balance outstanding of $254.0 million , had approximately $2.1 million letters of credit and performance bonds, and had availability under the CCLP Credit Agreement of approximately $143.9 million . The CCLP Credit Agreement requires CCLP to maintain (i) a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio (ratio of consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization ("EBITDA") to consolidated interest charges) of 3.0 to 1.0, (ii) a maximum consolidated total leverage ratio (ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA) of 5.5 to 1.0 (with step downs to 5.0 to 1.0), and (iii) a maximum consolidated secured leverage ratio (consolidated secured indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA) of 4.0 to 1.0, in each case, as of the last day of each fiscal quarter, calculated on a trailing four quarters basis. At December 31, 2015, CCLP's leverage ratio was 4.56 to 1. In addition, the CCLP Credit Agreement includes customary negative covenants that, among other things, limit CCLP's ability to incur additional debt, incur or permit certain liens to exist, or make certain loans, investments, acquisitions, or other restricted payments. The CCLP Credit Agreement provides that CCLP can make distributions to holders of its common units, but only if there is no default or event of default under the facility. CCLP is in compliance with all covenants and conditions of its Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2015 . CCLP's continuing ability to comply with its financial covenants depends largely upon its ability to generate adequate cash flow. Historically, CCLP's financial performance has been more than adequate to meet these covenants, and CCLP expects this trend to continue. However, given the expected decreased demand for certain of CCLP's products and services by its customers in response to decreased oil and natural gas prices, CCLP has taken strategic cost reduction efforts, including headcount reductions, deferral of wage increases, wage reductions, and other efforts to reduce costs and generate cash in anticipation of the reduced demand for its products and services. Based on CCLP's projections for each of the quarterly periods in 2016 and including the impact of these cost reduction efforts to increase operating cash flows, CCLP anticipates that it will be in compliance with the financial covenants under its Credit Agreement through December 31, 2016. CCLP 7.25% Senior Notes . In August 2014, CCLP and CSI Compressco Finance Inc., a Delaware corporation and indirect wholly owned subsidiary of CCLP (CSI Compressco Finance and, together with CCLP, the "Issuers"), issued $350.0 million aggregate principal amount of the CCLP Senior Notes in a private offering (the "Offering") exempt from the registration requirements under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") pursuant to a Note Purchase Agreement dated July 29, 2014. The CCLP Senior Notes were subsequently registered through a public exchange offer that closed on July 20, 2015. The obligations under the CCLP Senior Notes are jointly and severally, and fully and unconditionally, guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by each of CCLP domestic restricted subsidiaries (other than CSI Compressco Finance) that guarantee CCLP other indebtedness (the "Guarantors" and together with the Issuers, the "Obligors"). The CCLP Senior Notes and the subsidiary guarantees thereof (together, the "CCLP Securities") were issued pursuant to an indenture described below. The Obligors issued the CCLP Securities pursuant to the Indenture dated as of August 4, 2014, (the "Indenture") by and among the Obligors and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee"). The CCLP Senior Notes accrue interest at a rate of 7.25% per annum. Interest on the CCLP Senior Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on February 15 and August 15 of each year, beginning February 15, 2015. The CCLP Senior Notes are scheduled to mature on August 15, 2022. The Indenture contains customary covenants restricting CCLP ability and the ability of its restricted subsidiaries to: (i) pay dividends and make certain distributions, investments and other restricted payments; (ii) incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; (iii) create certain liens; (iv) sell assets; (v) merge, consolidate, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets; (vi) enter into transactions with affiliates; and (vii) designate its subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries under the Indenture. The Indenture also contains customary events of default and acceleration provisions relating to such events of default, which provide that upon an event of default under the Indenture, the Trustee or the holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the CCLP Senior Notes then outstanding may declare all amounts owing under the CCLP Senior Notes to be due and payable. 57 Other Sources and Uses In addition to the aforementioned revolving credit facilities, we and CCLP fund our respective short-term liquidity requirements from cash generated by our respective operations, operating leases, and from short-term vendor financing. Should additional capital be required, we believe that we have the ability to raise such capital through the issuance of additional debt or equity. However, instability or volatility in the capital markets at the times we need to access capital may affect the cost of capital and the ability to raise capital for an indeterminable length of time. TETRA's Credit Agreement, as amended, matures in September 2019, the CCLP Credit Agreement matures in August 2019, TETRA's Senior Unsecured Notes and Senior Secured Notes, including the Series 2015 Senior Notes, mature at various dates between December 2017 and November 2022, and the CCLP Senior Notes mature in August 2022. The replacement of these capital sources at similar or more favorable terms is not certain. If it is necessary to issue equity to fund our capital needs, dilution to our common stockholders will occur. Although near-term growth plans have been suspended and are subject to our efforts to conserve cash and rationalize our cost structure during the current period of low oil and natural gas prices, we maintain a long-term growth strategy for our core businesses. As part of our long-term strategic growth plans, we will evaluate opportunities to acquire businesses and assets that may involve the payment of cash. Such acquisitions may be funded with existing cash balances, funds under credit facilities, or cash generated from the issuance of equity or debt securities. CCLP also continues to pursue its long-term growth objectives, with funding available under its credit facilities, other borrowings, cash generated from the issuance of its common units, as well as its available cash. CCLP Partnership Agreement requires that within 45 days after the end of each quarter, it distribute all of its available cash, as defined in the Partnership Agreement, to its unitholders of record on the applicable record date. During the year ended December 31, 2015 , CCLP distributed approximately $68.4 million , including approximately $37.8 million to its public unitholders. In January 2016, however, the board of directors of CSI Compressco GP Inc. (CCLP's general partner and our wholly owned subsidiary) declared a cash distribution attributable to the quarter ended December 31, 2015 , of $0.3775 per common unit, which represents a decrease of $0.1250 per common unit compared to the previous quarterly distribution. The amount of quarterly distributions is determined based on a variety of factors, including estimates of CCLP's cash needs to fund its future operating, investing, and debt service requirements. During the current period of low oil and natural gas pricing, there can be no assurance that quarterly distributions from CCLP will increase from this reduced amount per unit, or that there will not be future decreases in the amount of distributions going forward. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements An off balance sheet arrangement is defined as any contractual arrangement to which an entity that is not consolidated with us is a party, under which we have, or in the future may have: any obligation under a guarantee contract that requires initial recognition and measurement under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles; a retained or contingent interest in assets transferred to an unconsolidated entity or similar arrangement that serves as credit, liquidity, or market risk support to that entity for the transferred assets; any obligation under certain derivative instruments; or any obligation under a material variable interest held by us in an unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support to us, or engages in leasing, hedging, or research and development services with us. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014 , we had no off balance sheet arrangements that may have a current or future material effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. For a discussion of operating leases, including the lease of our corporate headquarters facility, see Note D Leases in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Commitments and Contingencies Litigation We are named defendants in several lawsuits and respondents in certain governmental proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. While the outcome of lawsuits or other proceedings against us cannot be 58 predicted with certainty, management does not consider it reasonably possible that a loss resulting from such lawsuits or other proceedings in excess of any amounts accrued has been incurred that is expected to have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. Environmental One of our subsidiaries, TETRA Micronutrients, Inc. (TMI), previously owned and operated a production facility located in Fairbury, Nebraska. TMI is subject to an Administrative Order on Consent issued to American Microtrace, Inc. (n/k/a/ TETRA Micronutrients, Inc.) in the proceeding styled In the Matter of American Microtrace Corporation , EPA I.D. No. NED00610550, Respondent, Docket No. VII-98-H-0016, dated September 25, 1998 (the Consent Order), with regard to the Fairbury facility. TMI is liable for ongoing environmental monitoring at the Fairbury facility under the Consent Order; however, the current owner of the Fairbury facility is responsible for costs associated with the closure of that facility. While the outcome cannot be predicted with certainty, management does not consider it reasonably possible that a loss in excess of any amounts accrued has been incurred or is expected to have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. Product Purchase Obligations In the normal course of our Fluids Division operations, we enter into supply agreements with certain manufacturers of various raw materials and finished products. Some of these agreements have terms and conditions that specify a minimum or maximum level of purchases over the term of the agreement. Other agreements require us to purchase the entire output of the raw material or finished product produced by the manufacturer. Our purchase obligations under these agreements apply only with regard to raw materials and finished products that meet specifications set forth in the agreements. We recognize a liability for the purchase of such products at the time we receive them. As of December 31, 2015 , the aggregate amount of the fixed and determinable portion of the purchase obligation pursuant to our Fluids Division supply agreements was approximately $135.1 million , extending through 2029. Other Contingencies During 2011, in connection with the sale of a significant majority of Maritech's oil and gas producing properties, the buyers of the properties assumed the associated decommissioning liabilities pursuant to the purchase and sale agreements. For those oil and gas properties Maritech previously operated, the buyers of the properties assumed the financial responsibilities associated with the properties' operations, including abandonment and decommissioning, and generally became the successor operator. Some buyers of these Maritech properties subsequently sold certain of these properties to other buyers who also assumed these financial responsibilities associated with the properties' operations, and these buyers also typically became the successor operator of the properties. To the extent that a buyer of these properties fails to perform the abandonment and decommissioning work required, the previous owner, including Maritech, may be required to perform the abandonment and decommissioning obligation. A significant portion of the decommissioning liabilities that were assumed by the buyers of the Maritech properties in 2011 remains unperformed, and we believe the amounts of these remaining liabilities are significant. We monitor the financial condition of the buyers of these properties from Maritech, and if current oil and natural gas pricing levels continue, we expect that one or more of these buyers may be unable to perform the decommissioning work required on the properties acquired from Maritech. During 2015, continued low oil and natural gas prices have resulted in reduced revenues and cash flows for all oil and gas producing companies, including those companies that bought Maritech properties in the past. Certain of these oil and gas producing companies that bought Maritech properties are currently experiencing severe financial difficulties. With regard to certain of these properties, Maritech has security in the form of bonds or cash escrows intended to secure the buyers' obligations to perform the decommissioning work. One company that bought, and subsequently sold, Maritech properties filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in August 2015. Maritech and its legal counsel monitor the status of these companies. As of December 31, 2015, we do not consider the likelihood of Maritech becoming liable for decommissioning liabilities on sold properties to be probable. 59 Contractual Obligations The table below summarizes our consolidated contractual cash obligations as of December 31, 2015 : Payments Due Total 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Thereafter (In Thousands) Long-term debt - TETRA $ 292,921 $ $ 46,944 $ $ 72,850 $ 53,056 $ 120,071 Long-term debt - CCLP 580,481 235,000 345,481 Interest on debt - TETRA 118,784 21,552 21,552 19,163 17,186 14,016 25,315 Interest on debt - CCLP 189,300 31,134 31,134 31,134 29,105 25,047 41,746 Purchase obligations 135,142 12,283 11,203 9,328 9,328 9,300 83,700 Decommissioning and other asset retirement obligations (1) 57,449 14,570 29,446 1,269 3,086 9,078 Operating and capital leases 103,109 21,302 11,976 8,908 7,138 6,498 47,287 Total contractual cash obligations (2) $ 1,477,186 $ 100,841 $ 152,255 $ 68,533 $ 371,876 $ 111,003 $ 672,678 (1) We have estimated the timing of these payments for decommissioning liabilities based upon our plans and the plans of outside operators, which are subject to many changing variables, including the estimated life of the producing oil and gas properties, which is affected by changing oil and gas commodity prices. The amounts shown represent the undiscounted obligation as of December 31, 2015 . (2) Amounts exclude other long-term liabilities reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheet that do not have known payment streams. These excluded amounts include approximately $4.1 million of liabilities under FASB Codification Topic 740, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, as we are unable to reasonably estimate the ultimate amount or timing of settlements. See Note E Income Taxes, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. New Accounting Pronouncements For a discussion of new accounting pronouncements that may affect our consolidated financial statements, see "Note B - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, New Accounting Pronouncements ," contained in this Annual Report. 
