CIK: 927066
Company Name: DAVITA INC 
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2024-02-14
Accession Number: 0000927066-24-000013


Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-looking statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including this Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains statements that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws and as such are intended to be covered by the safe harbor for "forward-looking statements" provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements could include, among other things, statements about our balance sheet and liquidity, our expenses, revenues, billings and collections, availability or cost of supplies, treatment volumes, mix expectation, such as the percentage or number of patients under commercial insurance, current macroeconomic, marketplace and labor market conditions, and overall impact on our patients and teammates, as well as other statements regarding our future operations, financial condition and prospects, expenses, strategic initiatives, government and commercial payment rates, expectations related to value-based care, integrated kidney care and Medicare Advantage (MA) plan enrollment, expectations regarding increased competition and marketplace changes, including those related to new or potential entrants in the dialysis and pre-dialysis marketplace and the potential impact of innovative technologies, drugs or other treatments, expectations regarding the impact of our continuing cost savings initiatives and our ongoing stock repurchase program. All statements in this report, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, statements including the words "expect," "intend," "will," "could," "plan," "anticipate," "believe," and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on DaVita's current expectations and are based solely on information available as of the date of this report. DaVita undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of changed circumstances, new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required by law. Actual future events and results could differ materially from any forward-looking statements due to numerous factors that involve substantial known and unknown risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include, among other things: current macroeconomic and marketplace conditions, global events and domestic political or governmental volatility, many of which are interrelated and which relate to, among other things, inflation, potential interest rate volatility, labor market conditions, wage pressure, evolving monetary policies, and the continuing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our patients, teammates, physician partners, suppliers, business, operations, reputation, financial condition and results of operations; the continuing impact of the pandemic on our revenues and non-acquired growth due to lower treatment volumes; COVID-19's impact on the chronic kidney disease (CKD) population and our patient population including on the mortality of these patients; any potential negative impact on our commercial mix or the number of our patients covered by commercial insurance plans; the potential impact of new or potential entrants in the dialysis and pre-dialysis marketplace and potential impact of innovative technologies, drugs, or other treatments on our patients and industry; our ability to successfully implement cost savings initiatives; supply chain challenges and disruptions; and elevated teammate turnover and training costs and higher salary and wage expense, driven in part by persisting labor market conditions and a high demand for our clinical personnel, any of which may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks and uncertainties discussed below, and in many cases, the impact of the pandemic and the aforementioned global economic conditions on our business may persist even as the pandemic continues to subside; the concentration of profits generated by higher-paying commercial payor plans for which there is continued downward pressure on average realized payment rates; a reduction in the number or percentage of our patients under such plans, including, without limitation, as a result of continuing legislative efforts to restrict or prohibit the use and/or availability of charitable premium assistance, such as AB 290, which may result in the loss of revenues or patients, as a result of our making incorrect assumptions about how our patients will respond to any change in financial assistance from charitable organizations; or as a result of payors implementing restrictive plan designs, including, without limitation, actions taken in response to the U.S. Supreme Court decision in Marietta Memorial Hospital Employee Health Benefit Plan, et al. v. DaVita Inc. et al. (Marietta); how and whether regulators and legislators will respond to the Marietta decision including, without limitation, whether they will issue regulatory guidance or adopt new legislation; how courts will interpret other anti-discriminatory provisions that may apply to restrictive plan designs; whether there could be other potential negative impacts of the Marietta decision; and the timing of each of these items; the extent to which the ongoing implementation of healthcare reform, or changes in or new legislation, regulations or guidance, enforcement thereof or related litigation result in a reduction in coverage or reimbursement rates for our services, a reduction in the number of patients enrolled in or that select higher-paying commercial plans, including for example MA plans or other material impacts to our business or operations; or our making incorrect assumptions about how our patients will respond to any such developments; risks arising from potential changes in laws, regulations or requirements applicable to us, such as potential and proposed federal and/or state legislation, regulation, ballot, executive action or other initiatives, including without limitation, those related to healthcare, antitrust matters, including, among others, restrictive covenants and acquisition, merger, joint venture or similar transactions and/or labor matters; 58 our ability to attract, retain and motivate teammates and our ability to manage operating cost increases or productivity decreases whether due to union organizing activities, which continue to increase in the dialysis industry, legislative or other changes, demand for labor, volatility and uncertainty in the labor market, the current challenging and highly competitive labor market conditions, or other reasons; our ability to respond to challenging U.S. and global economic and marketplace conditions, including among other things our ability to successfully identify cost savings opportunities and to invest in and implement cost savings initiatives such as ongoing initiatives that increase our use of third-party service providers to perform certain activities, initiatives that relate to clinic optimization and capacity utilization improvement, and procurement opportunities, among other things; our ability to successfully implement our strategies with respect to integrated kidney care and value-based care initiatives and home-based dialysis in the desired time frame and in a complex, dynamic and highly regulated environment, including, among other things, maintaining our existing business; meeting growth expectations; recovering our investments; entering into or renewing agreements with payors, third party vendors and others on terms that are competitive and, as appropriate, prove actuarially sound; structuring operations, agreements and arrangements to comply with evolving rules and regulations; finding, training and retaining appropriate staff; and further developing our integrated care and other capabilities to provide competitive programs at scale; a reduction in government payment rates under the Medicare ESRD program, state Medicaid or other government-based programs and the impact of the MA benchmark structure; noncompliance by us or our business associates with any privacy or security laws or any security breach by us or a third party involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information; legal and compliance risks, such as our continued compliance with complex, and at times, evolving government regulations and requirements and with additional laws that may apply to our operations as we expand geographically or enter into new lines of business, including through acquisitions or joint ventures; the impact of the political environment and related developments on the current healthcare marketplace and on our business, including with respect to the Affordable Care Act, the exchanges and many other core aspects of the current healthcare marketplace, as well as the composition of the U.S. Supreme Court and the current presidential administration and congressional majority; changes in pharmaceutical practice patterns, reimbursement and payment policies and processes, or pharmaceutical pricing, including with respect to oral phosphate binders, among other things; our ability to develop and maintain relationships with physicians and hospitals, changing affiliation models for physicians, and the emergence of new models of care or other initiatives introduced by the government or private sector that, among other things, may erode our patient base and impact reimbursement rates; our ability to complete acquisitions, mergers, dispositions, joint ventures or other strategic transactions that we might announce or be considering, on terms favorable to us or at all, to successfully integrate any acquired businesses, to successfully operate any acquired businesses, joint ventures or other strategic transactions, to successfully expand our operations and services in markets outside the United States, or to businesses or products outside of dialysis services; continued increased competition from dialysis providers and others, and other potential marketplace changes, including without limitation increased investment in and availability of funding to new entrants in the dialysis and pre-dialysis marketplace; the variability of our cash flows, including without limitation any extended billing or collections cycles; the risk that we may not be able to generate or access sufficient cash in the future to service our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs; and the risk that we may not be able to refinance our indebtedness as it becomes due, on terms favorable to us or at all; factors that may impact our ability to repurchase stock under our stock repurchase program and the timing of any such stock repurchases, as well as our use of a considerable amount of available funds to repurchase stock; risks arising from the use of accounting estimates, judgments and interpretations in our financial statements; impairment of our goodwill, investments or other assets; our aspirations, goals and disclosures related to environmental, social and governance (ESG) matters, including, among other things, evolving regulatory requirements affecting ESG standards, measurements and reporting requirements; the availability of suppliers that can meet our sustainability standards; and our ability to recruit, develop and retain diverse talent in our labor markets; and the other risk factors, trends and uncertainties set forth in Part I Item 1A. of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and the other risks and uncertainties discussed in any subsequent reports that we file or furnish with the SEC from time to time. The following should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements. 59 Company overview Our principal business is to provide dialysis and related lab services to patients in the United States, which we refer to as our U.S. dialysis business. We also operate our U.S. integrated kidney care (IKC) business, our U.S. other ancillary services, and our international operations, which we collectively refer to as our ancillary services, as well as our corporate administrative support. Our U.S. dialysis business is a leading provider of kidney dialysis services in the U.S. for patients suffering from chronic kidney failure, also known as end stage renal disease (ESRD) or end stage kidney disease (ESKD). Our year-over-year overall financial performance in 2023 benefited from increased revenues in our U.S. dialysis, international and IKC businesses, as well as decreases in pharmaceutical costs, contract wage expense and advocacy spend. These positive trends were partially offset by continued increases in compensation expense, severance costs and center closure costs as we continued to focus on cost savings initiatives. In addition, 2023 was negatively impacted by increased legal costs and our continued investment in our integrated care support functions needed to support patient growth in our IKC business. Operational and financial highlights for 2023 include, among other things: U.S. dialysis revenue growth of 3.2% from an increase in average patient services revenue per treatment of $12.20; revenue growth of 35.2% in our IKC business which included the recognition of an incremental $55 million in shared savings revenue from the IKC adjustment described below, and 9.0% in our international operations; operating income of $1,603 million and adjusted operating income of $1,734 million; operating cash flows of $2,059 million and free cash flows of $1,236 million; repurchase of 2,903,832 shares of our common stock for aggregate consideration of $286 million, and a 1.8% reduction in our share count year-over-year; entry into a new Term Loan A-1 facility in the aggregate principal amount of $1,250 million and a revolving line of credit in an aggregate principal amount up to $1,500 million and purchase of $4,500 million notional amount of forward caps to shield our exposure to significant interest rate increases through 2026; and leverage ratio, as a multiple of Consolidated EBITDA, each as defined by our credit agreement, is back within our target range of 3.0x to 3.5x. Additional highlights include: a net decrease of 49 U.S. dialysis centers to improve center capacity utilization, as well as a net increase of 17 international dialysis centers from acquisitions and developments; a net increase in U.S. dialysis patients of 0.7% and international patients of 8.4% as of December 31, 2023; continued patient growth in IKC to 58,000 patients in risk-based integrated care arrangements and an additional 17,000 patients in other integrated care arrangements; and invested in Mozarc Medical Holding LLC (Mozarc), an independent new company committed to reshaping kidney health and driving patient-centered technology solutions. In 2024, we expect that treatment volumes will return to positive growth as the compounding impact of COVID-19 on historical mortality rates of dialysis patients and our patient census subsides. We expect improving adjusted operating income due to the combination of the net impact of our continued improvements in our billing cycle process and ongoing cost savings initiatives. We continue to expect pressure on wage rates and other costs due to the challenging labor market and other inflationary conditions. We also expect to see continued investment and operating improvement in our integrated kidney care and value-based care initiatives during 2024. Finally, considerable uncertainty exists surrounding the continued development of the various governmental laws, regulations and other requirements that may impact our business, including to the extent such developments impact the behavior of other health care market participants such as payors, employers, charitable organizations and government agencies. The discussion below includes analysis of our financial condition and results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2023 compared to December 31, 2022. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, includes a discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2021, in its Part II Item 7, " Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ". 60 References to the "Notes" in the discussion below refer to the notes to the Company's consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K at Part IV Item 15, " Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules " as referred from Part II Item 8, " Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. " General Economic and Marketplace Conditions; Legal and Regulatory Developments As noted above and described in further detail below, developments in general economic and market conditions have directly and indirectly impacted the Company and in the future could have a material adverse impact on our patients, teammates, physician partners, suppliers, business, operations, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, share price, cash flows and/or liquidity. Many of these external factors and conditions are interrelated, including, among other things, inflation, potential interest rate volatility, labor market conditions, wage pressure, the impact of COVID-19 on the mortality rates of our patients and other ESKD or CKD patients, supply chain challenges and the potential impact and application of innovative technologies, drugs or other treatments. Certain of these impacts could be further intensified by concurrent global events such as the ongoing conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and in Israel, Gaza and the surrounding areas, which have continued to drive sociopolitical and economic uncertainty across the globe. Operational and Financial Impacts In the fourth quarter of 2023, treatment per day volumes were relatively flat compared to the third quarter. On a full year basis, we continue to experience a negative impact on revenue and treatment volume due to the cumulative and compounding negative impact of COVID-19 on the mortality rates of our patients and the associated adverse impact on our patient census. However, we have continued to experience improvements with respect to these negative impacts with treatment volumes remaining relatively flat year over year and looking at the full year, we have seen an increase in patient census compared for the first time since 2019. Despite these improvements, new admission rates, treatment volumes, future revenues and non-acquired growth, among other things, could continue to be negatively impacted over time to the extent that the ESKD and CKD populations experience sustained elevated mortality levels. The magnitude of these cumulative impacts could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Ongoing global economic conditions and political and regulatory developments, such as general labor, supply chain and inflationary pressures have also increased, and will continue to increase, our expenses, including, among others, staffing and labor costs. We continue to experience increased levels of compensation compared to the prior year with contract labor improvements offset by investments in our teammate compensation. We expect certain of these increased staffing and labor costs to continue, due to, among other factors, the continuation of a challenging healthcare labor market. The cumulative impact of these increased costs could be material. In addition, our industry has experienced increased union organizing activities, including the filing of petitions by unions at certain of our competitors' clinics with a number of those clinics voting to unionize. Potential staffing shortages or other potential developments or disruptions related to our teammates, if material, could ultimately lead to the unplanned closures of certain centers or adversely impact clinical operations, or may otherwise have a material adverse impact on our ability to provide dialysis services or the cost of providing those services, among other things. The cost inflation trends described above have put pressure on our existing cost structure, and as noted above, we expect that certain of those increased costs will persist as inflationary and supply chain pressures and challenging labor market conditions continue. During the fourth quarter of 2023, we continued to invest in and implement cost savings initiatives designed to help mitigate these cost and volume pressures. These include identified cost savings related to the achievement of general and administrative cost efficiencies through ongoing initiatives that increase our use of third party service providers to perform certain activities. These opportunities and investments also include, among others, initiatives relating to clinic optimization, capacity utilization improvement and procurement opportunities, as well as investments in revenue cycle management. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, charges in connection with the continued implementation of certain of these initiatives. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully execute these initiatives or that they will achieve expectations or succeed in helping offset the impact of these challenging conditions. Legal and Regulatory Developments On October 13, 2019, California Assembly Bill 290 (AB 290) was signed into law. As drafted, AB 290 would, among other things, limit the amount of reimbursement paid to certain providers for services provided to patients with commercial insurance who receive charitable premium assistance (reimbursement cap). The implementation of AB 290 has been stayed pending resolution of legal challenges. The trial court recently issued a decision relating to these challenges to AB 290 that may result in the stay being lifted and at least some provisions of the law being implemented in the near future, although any appeal of the decision may result in the stay being continued. While it is currently unclear when and how those provisions may be implemented, in the event certain provisions of AB 290 are implemented in their proposed form, including the reimbursement cap, it may have negative consequences for our business. Depending on what provisions are implemented, organizations that provide charitable premium assistance may choose to withdraw from California, which would have an adverse impact on the 61 ability of patients to afford Medicare premiums and Medicare supplemental and commercial coverage. We expect that such an adverse impact will in turn adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In the past, bills similar to AB 290 have been introduced in other states, but none has become law. If these or similar bills are introduced and implemented in other jurisdictions, and organizations that provide charitable premium assistance in those jurisdictions are similarly impacted, it could in the aggregate have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. For additional information on risks associated with charitable premium assistance for ESRD patients and the potential impact of decreases to the percentage or number of our patients with commercial insurance, see the risk factors under the heading " Changes in federal and state healthcare legislation or regulations... " and " If the number or percentage of patients with higher-paying commercial insurance declines... " Consolidated results of operations The following table summarizes our revenues, operating income (loss) and adjusted operating income (loss) by line of business. See the discussion of our results for each line of business following this table. When multiple drivers are identified in the following discussion of results, they are listed in order of magnitude: Year ended December 31, Annual change 2023 2022 Amount Percent (dollars in millions) Revenues: U.S. dialysis $ 10,937 $ 10,600 $ 337 3.2 % Other - Ancillary services 1,299 1,101 198 18.0 % Elimination of intersegment revenues (96) (91) (5) (5.5) % Total consolidated revenues $ 12,140 $ 11,610 $ 530 4.6 % Operating income (loss): U.S. dialysis $ 1,775 $ 1,565 $ 210 13.4 % Other - Ancillary services (9) (97) 88 90.7 % Corporate administrative support (163) (130) (33) (25.4) % Operating income $ 1,603 $ 1,339 $ 264 19.7 % Adjusted operating income (loss): (1) U.S. dialysis $ 1,900 $ 1,668 $ 232 13.9 % Other - Ancillary services (45) (89) 44 49.4 % Corporate administrative support (122) (129) 7 5.4 % Adjusted operating income $ 1,734 $ 1,450 $ 284 19.6 % Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers. (1) For a reconciliation of adjusted operating income (loss) by reportable segment, see the "Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures" section below. U.S. dialysis business As of December 31, 2023, our U.S. dialysis business is a leading provider of kidney dialysis services, operating 2,675 outpatient dialysis centers serving a total of approximately 200,800 patients, and contracted to provide hospital inpatient dialysis services in approximately 790 hospitals. We estimate that we have approximately a 36% share of the U.S. dialysis market based upon the number of patients we serve. Approximately 89% of our 2023 consolidated revenues were derived directly from our U.S. dialysis business. The principal drivers of our U.S. dialysis revenues include : our number of treatments, which is primarily a function of the number of chronic patients requiring approximately three in-center treatments per week as well as, to a lesser extent, the number of treatments for home-based dialysis and hospital inpatient dialysis; and our average dialysis patient service revenue per treatment, including the mix of patients with commercial plans and government programs as primary payor. 62 Within our U.S. dialysis business, our home-based dialysis and hospital inpatient dialysis services are operationally integrated with our outpatient dialysis centers and related laboratory services. Our outpatient, home-based and hospital inpatient dialysis services comprise approximately 76%, 18% and 6% of our U.S. dialysis revenues, respectively. In the U.S., government dialysis-related payment rates are principally determined by federal Medicare and state Medicaid policy. For 2023, approximately 67% of our total U.S. dialysis patient service revenues were generated from government-based programs for services to approximately 89% of our total U.S. patients. These government-based programs are principally Medicare and MA, Medicaid and managed Medicaid plans, and other government plans, representing approximately 56%, 8% and 3% of our U.S. dialysis patient service revenues, respectively. On October 27, 2023, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) issued a final rule to update the Medicare ESRD Prospective Payment System payment rate and policies for calendar year 2024. CMS estimates the final rule will affect ESRD facilities' average reimbursement by a productivity-adjusted market basket increase of 2.1% in 2024. Dialysis payment rates from commercial payors vary and a major portion of our commercial rates are set at contracted amounts with payors and are subject to intense negotiation pressure. On average, dialysis-related payment rates from contracted commercial payors are significantly higher than Medicare, Medicaid and other government program payment rates, and therefore the percentage of commercial patients in relation to total patients represents a significant driver of our total average dialysis patient service revenue per treatment. Commercial payors (including hospital dialysis services) represent approximately 33% of U.S. dialysis patient service revenues. For a discussion of government reimbursement, the Medicare ESRD bundled payment system, MA and commercial reimbursement, see Part I Item 1. Business under the heading " U.S. dialysis business Sources of revenue-concentrations and risks." For a discussion of operational, clinical and financial risks and uncertainties that we face in connection with the Medicare ESRD bundled payment system, see the risk factor in Part I Item 1A. Risk Factors under the heading " Our business is subject to a complex set of governmental laws, regulations and other requirements and any failure to adhere to those requirements, or any changes in those requirements..." For a discussion of operational, clinical and financial risks and uncertainties that we face in connection with commercial payors, see the risk factor in Item 1A. Risk Factors under the heading " If the number or percentage of patients with higher-paying commercial insurance declines, if the average rates that commercial payors pay us declines... " We anticipate that we will continue to experience increases in our operating costs in 2024 that may outpace any net Medicare, commercial or other rate increases that we may receive, which could significantly impact our operating results. In particular, we expect to continue experiencing increases in operating costs that are subject to inflation, such as labor and supply costs, including increases in maintenance costs, regardless of whether there is a compensating inflation-based increase in Medicare, commercial or other payor payment rates. In addition, we expect to continue to incur capital expenditures and associated depreciation and amortization costs to improve, renovate and maintain our facilities, equipment and information technology to meet evolving regulatory requirements and otherwise. U.S. dialysis patient care costs are those costs directly associated with operating and supporting our dialysis centers, home-based dialysis programs and hospital inpatient dialysis programs, and consist principally of labor, benefits, pharmaceuticals, medical supplies and other operating costs of the dialysis centers. The principal drivers of our U.S. dialysis patient care costs include: clinical hours per treatment, labor rates and benefit costs; vendor pricing and utilization levels of pharmaceuticals; business infrastructure costs, which include the operating costs of our dialysis centers; and medical supply costs. Other cost categories that can present significant variability include insurance costs and professional fees. In addition, proposed ballot initiatives or referendums, legislation, regulations or policy changes could cause us to incur substantial costs to prepare for, or implement changes required. Any such changes could result in, among other things, increases in our labor costs or limitations on the amount of revenue that we can retain. For additional information on risks associated with potential and proposed ballot initiatives, referendums, legislation, regulations or policy changes, see the risk factor in Item 1A. Risk Factors under the heading, " Changes in federal and state healthcare legislation or regulations... " Our average clinical hours per treatment was relatively flat in 2023 compared to 2022. We are always striving for improved productivity levels, however, changes in factors such as federal and state policies or regulatory billing requirements 63 can lead to increased labor costs as can increases in turnover. In 2023, the demand for skilled clinical personnel continued, exacerbated by the nationwide shortage of these resources. In 2023 and 2022, we experienced increases in our clinical labor wage rates, which includes contract labor, of approximately 1.3% and 7.4%, respectively. We expect to continue to see higher clinical labor rates in 2024 due to labor market conditions, including changes in local minimum wage laws, and the continued competition for skilled clinical personnel. In 2023, our overall clinical teammate turnover was relatively flat from 2022, but remains elevated from historical levels. We also continue to experience increases in the infrastructure and operating costs of our dialysis centers and general increases in rent and repairs and maintenance. In 2023, we continued to implement certain cost control initiatives to help manage our overall operating costs, including labor productivity, and we expect to continue these initiatives in 2024. Our U.S. dialysis general and administrative expenses represented 10.1% and 9.8% of our U.S. dialysis revenues in 2023 and 2022, respectively. Increases in general and administrative expenses over the last several years were primarily related to strengthening our dialysis business and related compliance and operational processes, responding to certain legal and compliance matters, professional fees associated with enhancing our information technology (IT) systems, such as our new clinical system, and more recently severance costs related to planned administrative efficiencies and advocacy costs in 2022 related to countering union policy efforts. We expect that these levels of general and administrative expenses will be impacted by continued investment in developing our capabilities and executing on our strategic priorities, among other things. U.S. dialysis results of operations Treatment volume: Year ended December 31, Annual change 2023 2022 Amount Percent Dialysis treatments 28,910,177 28,954,433 (44,256) (0.2) % Average treatments per day 92,542 92,506 36 % Treatment days 312 313 (1) (0.2) % Normalized non-acquired treatment growth (1) (0.1) % (2.0) % 1.9 % Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers (1) Normalized non-acquired treatment growth reflects year over year growth in treatment volume, adjusted to exclude acquisitions and other similar transactions, and further adjusted to normalize for the number and mix of treatment days in a given period versus the prior period. Our U.S. dialysis treatment volume is directly correlated with our operating revenues and expenses. The decrease in our U.S. dialysis treatments in 2023 was primarily driven by fewer treatment days. Revenues: Year ended December 31, Annual change 2023 2022 Amount Percent (dollars in millions, except per treatment data) Total revenues $ 10,937 $ 10,600 $ 337 3.2 % Average patient service revenue per treatment $ 377.44 $ 365.24 $ 12.20 3.3 % Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers U.S. dialysis average patient service revenue per treatment increased primarily due to normal annual rate increases, including a net increase in Medicare rates due to a base rate increase in 2023, partially offset by the phased-in increase of sequestration of 1% in April 2022 and the full 2% beginning July 1, 2022 and thereafter. Other drivers of this change include improved cash collections including on previously reserved balances assumed to be uncollectible, and favorable changes in commercial and MA mix. 64 Operating expenses and charges: Year ended December 31, Annual change 2023 2022 Amount Percent (dollars in millions, except per treatment data) Patient care costs $ 7,395 $ 7,334 $ 61 0.8 % General and administrative (1) 1,102 1,038 64 6.2 % Depreciation and amortization 696 691 5 0.7 % Equity investment income (30) (28) (2) (7.1) % Total operating expenses and charges $ 9,162 $ 9,034 $ 128 1.4 % Patient care costs per treatment $ 255.78 $ 253.31 $ 2.47 1.0 % Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers (1) General and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2022 included advocacy costs of approximately $51 million incurred to counter union policy efforts, including a California statewide ballot initiative (CA Proposition 29). Charges impacting operating income Closure costs. During the year ended December 31, 2023, we continued the strategic review of our outpatient clinic capacity requirements and utilization, which have been impacted both by declines in our patient census in some markets due to the COVID-19 pandemic as well as by our initiatives toward, and advances in, increasing the proportion of our home dialysis patients. This continuing review, begun in the third quarter of 2022, has resulted in higher than normal charges for center capacity closures since its initiation. These capacity closure costs include net losses on assets retired, lease costs, asset impairments and accelerated depreciation and amortization. During the year ended December 31, 2023, U.S. dialysis center closure costs were approximately $99.1 million, which increased our patient care costs by $28.0 million, our general and administrative expenses by $20.6 million and our depreciation and amortization expense by $50.5 million. By comparison, during the year ended December 31, 2022, U.S. dialysis center closures were approximately $85.7 million, which increased our patient care costs by $20.7 million, our general and administrative expenses by $19.2 million and our depreciation and amortization expense by $45.8 million. In the upcoming fiscal year, we will continue to optimize our U.S. dialysis center footprint through center mergers and/or closures and expect our center closure levels to mirror the current year's elevated closure levels. Severance costs. During the fourth quarter of 2022, we committed to a plan to increase efficiencies and cost savings in certain general and administrative support functions. As a result of this plan, we recognized expenses related to termination and other benefit commitments in our U.S. dialysis business of $26.7 million and $17.0 million during the twelve months ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Patient care costs. U.S. dialysis patient care costs are those costs directly associated with operating and supporting our dialysis centers and consist principally of compensation expenses including labor and benefits, pharmaceuticals, medical supplies and other operating costs of the dialysis centers. U.S. dialysis patient care costs per treatment increased primarily due to increased compensation expenses including increased wage rates and headcount, as well as increases in medical supply costs, routine repairs and maintenance, health benefit expenses, professional fees and utilities expense. Other drivers of this change include increases in travel costs, other direct operating expenses associated with our dialysis centers, office equipment expense, and center closure costs, as described above. These increases were partially offset by decreases in pharmaceutical unit costs and contract wages. General and administrative expenses. U.S. dialysis general and administrative expenses increased primarily due to increases in compensation expense including increased wage rates and severance costs, as described above. Other drivers of this change include higher gains recognized on the sale of our self-developed properties in 2022 and increases in IT-related costs, contributions to our charitable foundation, travel costs, long-term incentive compensation and marketing and advertising expenses. These increases were partially offset by decreases in advocacy costs and professional fees. Depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization expense is directly impacted by the number of our dialysis centers and the information technology that we develop and acquire as well as changes in useful lives of assets. U.S. dialysis depreciation and amortization expense increased in 2023 primarily due to accelerated depreciation for expected center closures, as described above. 65 Equity investment income. U.S. dialysis equity investment income increased primarily due to increased profitability at certain nonconsolidated dialysis partnerships. Operating income and adjusted operating income Year ended December 31, Annual change 2023 2022 Amount Percent (dollars in millions) Operating income $ 1,775 $ 1,565 $ 210 13.4 % Adjusted operating income (1) $ 1,900 $ 1,668 $ 232 13.9 % Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers. (1) For a reconciliation of adjusted operating income by reportable segment, see the "Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures" section below. U.S. dialysis operating income was negatively impacted by center closure and severance costs, as described above. Operating income and adjusted operating income increased compared to 2022 primarily due to an increase in our average patient service revenue per treatment, as described above, and decreases in pharmaceutical unit costs, contract wages and advocacy costs. These increases in operating income and adjusted operating income were partially offset by increases in compensation expenses and decreased gains on sale, each described above, as well as increased costs related to travel, contributions to our foundation, medical supply costs, routine repairs and maintenance, IT-related costs, health benefit expenses and utilities expense. Operating income and adjusted operating income were also impacted by decreased dialysis treatment volume, described above, and increases in other direct operating expenses associated with our dialysis centers, long-term incentive compensation, marketing and advertising expense and office equipment expense. Other - Ancillary services Our other operations include ancillary services that are primarily aligned with our core business of providing dialysis services to our network of patients. As of December 31, 2023, these consisted primarily of our IKC business, certain U.S. other ancillary businesses (including our clinical research programs, transplant software business, and venture investment group), and our international operations. These ancillary services, including our international operations, generated revenues of approximately $1.299 billion in 2023, representing approximately 11% of our consolidated revenues. As of December 31, 2023, DaVita IKC provided integrated care and disease management services to approximately 58,000 patients in risk-based integrated care arrangements and to an additional 17,000 patients in other integrated care arrangements. We also expect to add additional service offerings to our business and pursue additional strategic initiatives in the future as circumstances warrant, which could include, among other things, healthcare services not related to kidney disease. For a discussion of the risks related to IKC and our ancillary services, see the discussion in the risk factors in Item 1A. Risk Factors under the headings, " The U.S. integrated kidney care, U.S. other ancillary services and international operations that we operate or invest in now or in the future ..." and " If we are not able to successfully implement our strategy with respect to our integrated kidney care and value-based care initiatives ..." As of December 31, 2023, our international dialysis business owned or operated 367 outpatient dialysis centers located in 11 countries outside of the U.S. For 2023, total revenues generated from our international operations were approximately 6% of our consolidated revenues. 66 Ancillary services results of operations Year ended December 31, Annual change 2023 2022 Amount Percent (dollars in millions) Revenues: U.S. IKC $ 511 $ 378 $ 133 35.2 % U.S. other ancillary 25 23 2 8.7 % International 763 700 63 9.0 % Total ancillary services revenues $ 1,299 $ 1,101 $ 198 18.0 % Operating (loss) income: U.S. IKC $ (39) $ (125) $ 86 68.8 % U.S. other ancillary (25) (9) (16) (177.8) % International (1) 55 37 18 48.6 % Total ancillary services loss $ (9) $ (97) $ 88 90.7 % Adjusted operating (loss) income (2) : U.S. IKC $ (93) $ (124) $ 31 25.0 % U.S. other ancillary (7) (9) 2 22.2 % International (1) 55 44 11 25.0 % Total adjusted operating loss: $ (45) $ (89) $ 44 49.4 % Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers. (1) The reported operating income and adjusted operating income for the years ended December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, includes foreign currency losses embedded in equity method income recognized from our APAC joint venture of approximately $(1.6) million and $(0.3) million, respectively. (2) For a reconciliation of adjusted operating (loss) income by reportable segment, see the "Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures" section below. Revenues: Our IKC revenues were impacted by an increase in shared savings from our VBC contracts and an increase in revenues from our special needs plans. Our U.S. other ancillary services revenues were impacted by increased revenues in our clinical research programs. Our international revenues increased due to acquisition-related growth as well as average reimbursement rate increases in certain countries. Items impacting operating income IKC adjustment. The increase in IKC revenues for 2023, as described above, was primarily due to the lifting of certain revenue recognition constraints for some of our value-based care contracts with health plans, allowing us to recognize approximately $55 million in incremental shared savings revenues. Severance and other costs . During the fourth quarter of 2022, similar to U.S. dialysis, we committed to a plan to increase efficiencies and cost savings in certain general and administrative support functions and other overhead costs. As a result of this plan, we recognized expenses related to termination and other benefit commitments in our IKC business of $0.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2023. By comparison, during the twelve months ended December 31, 2022, we recognized expenses related to termination and other benefit commitments in our IKC business, and similar expenses and other charges in our international operations, of $0.5 million and $7.5 million, respectively. Goodwill impairment charge and related items . During the fourth quarter of 2023, we recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $26.1 million in our transplant software business. We also recognized a gain of $7.7 million due to a reduction in the estimated value of earn-out obligations from our original acquisition of this business. This impairment charge and related gain resulted from a reduction in estimated fair value for the business driven primarily from the business not achieving its revenue targets, with reduced revenue expectations for future years, as well as an increase in the risk-free rate. 67 Operating loss and adjusted operating loss: Our IKC operating loss was impacted by the IKC change in estimate, as described above. Our IKC operating loss and adjusted operating loss decreased primarily due to increased revenues, as described above, partially offset by continued investments in our integrated care support functions. Our U.S. other ancillary services operating loss was impacted by a goodwill impairment charge and related gain, as described above. Our U.S. other ancillary services operating loss and adjusted operating loss was impacted by improved performance in our clinical research programs. Our international operating income in 2022 was impacted by severance and other costs in one of our international businesses, as described above. International operating income and adjusted operating income were impacted by acquisition-related growth, partially offset by increases in equity losses resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency at our APAC JV and other direct operating expenses associated with our international dialysis centers. Corporate administrative support Corporate administrative support consists primarily of labor, benefits and long-term incentive compensation expense, as well as professional fees, for departments which provide support to more than one of our various operating lines of business. Corporate administrative support expenses are included in general and administrative expenses on our consolidated income statement . Accruals for legal matters . During 2023, we recorded a charge of $40 million for a legal matter within corporate administrative support. Corporate support expenses increased $33 million primarily driven by accruals for legal matters, as described above, as well as increased compensation expenses, including long-term incentive compensation, partially offset by higher legal fees in 2022. Corporate-level charges Year ended December 31, Annual change 2023 2022 Amount Percent (dollars in millions) Debt expense $ 399 $ 357 $ 42 11.8 % Debt extinguishment and modification costs $ 8 $ $ 8 Other (loss) income, net $ (19) $ (16) $ (3) (18.8) % Effective income tax rate 18.7 % 20.5 % (1.8) % Effective income tax rate from continuing operations attributable to DaVita Inc. (1) 24.3 % 26.5 % (2.2) % Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests $ 265 $ 221 $ 44 19.9 % Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers. (1) For a reconciliation of our effective income tax rate from continuing operations attributable to DaVita Inc., see the "Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures" section below. Debt expense Debt expense increased primarily due to an increase in our overall weighted average effective interest rate, partially offset by a decrease in our weighted average credit facility balance outstanding. Our overall weighted average effective interest rate on all debt, including the effect of interest rate caps and amortization of debt discount, was 4.52% in 2023 compared to 3.96% in 2022. See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on the components of our debt and changes in them since 2022. Debt extinguishment and modification costs Debt extinguishment and modification charges were $8 million in 2023 related to the refinancing of our prior Term Loan A and prior revolving line of credit. These costs were composed partially of deferred financing costs written off for the portion of this debt considered extinguished and reborrowed and partially of fees incurred as part of this debt refinancing. Other (loss) income Other (loss) income consists primarily of interest income on cash and cash equivalents and short- and long-term investments, equity investment (loss) income on equity method investments other than dialysis partnerships, realized and 68 unrealized gains and losses recognized on other investments, impairments on investments, and foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Other loss increased primarily due to equity investment losses on our new investment in Mozarc which was net of the $15 million gain from the non-cash asset contributed at close. This was partially offset by decreased losses recognized on other investments and an increase in interest income. Provision for income taxes Our effective income tax rate and effective income tax rate from continuing operations attributable to DaVita Inc. decreased in 2023 primarily due to decreases in nondeductible advocacy expenses and benefits realized from tax returns finalized during the year. These decreases were partially offset by nondeductible costs related to a legal matter and a reduction in benefits recognized for stock compensation in 2023. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests The increase in income attributable to noncontrolling interests was due to an increase in earnings at certain U.S. dialysis partnerships. U.S. dialysis accounts receivable Our U.S. dialysis accounts receivable balances at December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022 were $1.632 billion and $1.899 billion, respectively, representing approximately 54 days and 66 days of revenue (DSO), respectively. The decrease in DSO was primarily due to strong collections from non-Medicare payors and Medicare timing recoveries. Our DSO calculation is based on the most recent quarter average revenues per day. There were no significant changes during 2023 from 2022 in the carrying amount of accounts receivable outstanding over one year old or in the amounts pending approval from third-party payors. As of December 31, 2023 and 2022, our U.S. dialysis accounts receivable balances that are more than six months old represented approximately 19% of our U.S. dialysis accounts receivable balances outstanding. Substantially all revenue realized for patient services is received from government and commercial payors, as discussed above. Less than 1% of our revenues in both periods were classified as patient pay. Amounts pending approval from third-party payors associated with Medicare bad debt claims as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, other than the standard monthly billing, were approximately $107 million and $111 million, respectively, and are classified within other receivables. A significant portion of our Medicare bad debt claims are typically paid to us before the Medicare fiscal intermediary audits the claims but are subject to subsequent adjustment based upon the actual results of those audits. Such audits typically occur one to four years after the claims are filed. 69 Liquidity and capital resources The following table summarizes our major sources and uses of cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash: Year ended December 31, Annual change 2023 2022 Amount Percent (dollars in millions) Net cash provided by operating activities: Net income $ 957 $ 782 $ 175 22.4 % Non-cash items in net income 908 783 125 16.0 % Other working capital changes 209 66 143 216.7 % Other (14) (66) 52 78.8 % $ 2,059 $ 1,565 $ 494 31.6 % Net cash used in investing activities: Capital expenditures: Routine maintenance/IT/other $ (406) $ (431) $ 25 5.8 % Developments and relocations (162) (172) 10 5.8 % Acquisition expenditures (26) (57) 31 54.4 % Proceeds from sale of self-developed properties 11 109 (98) (89.9) % Other (189) (78) (111) (142.3) % $ (772) $ (630) $ (142) (22.5) % Net cash used in financing activities: Debt payments, net $ (550) $ (11) $ (539) (4,900.0) % Deferred financing and debt redemption costs (70) (70) (100.0) % Distributions to noncontrolling interests (281) (268) (13) (4.9) % Contributions from noncontrolling interests 15 15 % Stock award exercises and other share issuances (48) (37) (11) (29.7) % Share repurchases (272) (802) 530 66.1 % Other 35 (17) 52 305.9 % $ (1,170) $ (1,121) $ (49) (4.4) % Total number of shares repurchased 2,903,832 8,094,661 (5,190,829) (64.1) % Free cash flow (1) $ 1,236 $ 817 $ 419 51.3 % Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers. (1) For a reconciliation of our free cash flow, see the "Reconciliations of Non-GAAP measures" section below. Consolidated cash flows Consolidated cash flows from operating activities for 2023 and 2022 were $2,059 million and $1,565 million, respectively. The increase in cash flows from continuing operations was primarily driven by improvements in operating results and cash collections on accounts receivable as well as decreases in cash taxes paid partially offset by increases in interest payments on debt and other working capital items. Cash flows used for investing activities in 2023 increased $142 million compared to 2022 primarily due to a decrease in proceeds received on self-developed properties as well as increases in equity investments including the investment in Mozarc. These increases were partially offset by decreases in acquisition expenditures combined with decreases in capital expenditures. Cash flows used in financing activities increased $49 million in 2023 compared to 2022. Significant uses of cash during 2023 consisted of the pay-off of the remaining principal balance outstanding on our prior Term Loan A and prior revolving line of credit in the amount of $1,444 million and $150 million, respectively. Other uses of cash included regularly scheduled and other principal payments under our senior secured credit facilities totaling approximately $54 million on our prior Term Loan 70 A, $16 million on our new Term Loan A-1, described below, $57 million on Term Loan B-1, additional net repayments of $15 million on our revolving line of credit, as well as additional required payments under other debt arrangements. Additionally, we recognized financing cash outflows of $30 million in deferred financing costs related to the Amendments to the Senior Secured Credit Agreement and $40 million in cap premium fees for our 2023 forward interest cap agreements. Significant sources of cash during the period included the refinancing of the Term Loan A and revolving line of credit with a secured Term Loan A-1 facility in the aggregate principal amount of $1,250 million. During the year ended December 31, 2023 we also used cash to repurchase 2,903,832 shares of our common stock. By comparison, 2022 included a net draw of $165 million on our prior revolving line of credit, net debt payments which consisted of regularly scheduled mandatory principal payments under our senior secured credit facilities totaling approximately $98 million on our prior Term Loan A and $27 million on Term Loan B-1, as well as additional required payments under other debt arrangements. In addition, during the twelve months ended December 31, 2022 we used cash to repurchase 8,094,661 shares of our common stock. Dialysis center capacity and growth We are typically able to increase our capacity by extending hours at our existing dialysis centers, expanding our existing dialysis centers, relocating our dialysis centers, developing new dialysis centers and by acquiring dialysis centers. The development of a typical new outpatient dialysis center generally requires approximately $2 million for leasehold improvements and other capital expenditures. Based on our experience, a new outpatient dialysis center typically opens within a year after the property lease is signed, normally achieves operating profitability in the second year after Medicare certification, and normally reaches maturity within three to five years. Acquiring an existing outpatient dialysis center requires a substantially greater initial investment, but profitability and cash flows are generally accelerated and more predictable. To a limited extent, we enter into agreements to provide management and administrative services to outpatient dialysis centers in which we own a noncontrolling interest or which are wholly-owned by third parties in return for management fees. The table below shows the growth in our dialysis operations by number of dialysis centers owned or operated: U.S. International 2023 2022 2023 2022 Number of centers operated at beginning of year 2,724 2,815 350 339 Acquired centers 5 12 11 Developed centers 20 39 8 6 Net change in non-owned managed or administered centers (1) 3 (1) 2 5 Sold and closed centers (2) (6) (22) (2) (9) Closed centers (3) (66) (112) (3) (2) Number of centers operated at end of year 2,675 2,724 367 350 (1) Represents dialysis centers which we manage or provide administrative services to but in which we own a noncontrolling equity interest or which are wholly-owned by third parties, including our Asia Pacific joint venture centers. (2) Represents dialysis centers that were sold and/or closed for which the majority of patients were not retained. (3) Represents dialysis centers that were closed for which the majority of patients were retained and transferred to one of our other existing outpatient dialysis centers. Stock repurchases The following table summarizes our common stock repurchases during the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022: Year ended December 31, 2023 2022 (dollars in millions and shares in thousands, except per share data) Shares 2,904 8,095 Amounts paid $ 286 $ 788 Average price paid per share $ 97.82 $ 97.30 We retired all shares of common stock held in treasury effective December 31, 2023 and 2022. Subsequent to December 31, 2023, we have repurchased 1,507,000 shares of or common stock for $164 million at an average price paid of $107.97 per share through February 12, 2024. 71 See further discussion of our share repurchase activity and authorizations in Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements. Available liquidity As of December 31, 2023, our cash balance was $380 million and we held approximately $12 million in short-term investments. At that time we also had undrawn capacity on the revolving line of credit under our senior credit facilities of $1.5 billion. Credit available under this revolving line of credit is reduced by the amount of any letters of credit outstanding thereunder, of which there were none as of December 31, 2023. As of December 31, 2023 we separately had approximately $151 million in letters of credit outstanding under a separate bilateral secured letter of credit facility. See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for components of our long-term debt and their interest rates. We believe that our cash flows from operations and other sources of liquidity, including from amounts available under our senior secured credit facilities and our access to the capital markets, will be sufficient to fund our scheduled debt service under the terms of our debt agreements and other obligations for the foreseeable future, including the next 12 months. From time to time, depending on market conditions, our capital requirements and the availability of financing, among other things, we may seek to refinance our existing debt and may incur additional indebtedness. Our primary recurrent sources of liquidity are cash from operations and cash from borrowings, which are subject to general, economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control, as described in Item 1A. Risk Factors under the heading " The level of our current and future debt... " Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures The following tables provide reconciliations of adjusted operating income (loss) to operating income (loss) as presented on a U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) basis for our U.S. dialysis reportable segment as well as for our U.S. IKC business, our U.S. other ancillary services, our international business, and for our total ancillary services which combines them and is disclosed as our other segments category, in addition to our corporate administrative support. These non-GAAP or "adjusted" measures are presented because management believes these measures are useful adjuncts to, but not alternatives for, our GAAP results. Specifically, management uses adjusted operating income (loss) to compare and evaluate our performance period over period and relative to competitors, to analyze the underlying trends in our business, to establish operational budgets and forecasts and for incentive compensation purposes. We believe this non-GAAP measure is also useful to investors and analysts in evaluating our performance over time and relative to competitors, as well as in analyzing the underlying trends in our business. We also believe this presentation enhances a user's understanding of our normal operating income by excluding certain items which we do not believe are indicative of our ordinary results of operations. In addition, our effective income tax rate on income from continuing operations attributable to DaVita Inc. excludes noncontrolling owners' income, which primarily relates to non-tax paying entities. We believe this adjusted effective income tax rate is useful to management, investors and analysts in evaluating our performance and establishing expectations for income taxes incurred on our ordinary results attributable to DaVita Inc. Finally, our free cash flow from continuing operations represents net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations less distributions to noncontrolling interests and all capital expenditures (including development capital expenditures, routine maintenance and information technology), plus contributions from noncontrolling interests and proceeds from the sale of self-developed properties. Management uses this measure to assess our ability to fund acquisitions and meet our debt service obligations and we believe this measure is equally useful to investors and analysts as an adjunct to cash flows from operating activities from continuing operations and other measures under GAAP. 72 It is important to bear in mind that these non-GAAP "adjusted" measures are not measures of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered in isolation from, nor as substitutes for, their most comparable GAAP measures. Year ended December 31, 2023 U.S. dialysis Ancillary services Corporate administration U.S. IKC U.S. Other International Total Consolidated (dollars in millions) Operating income (loss) $ 1,775 $ (39) $ (25) $ 55 $ (9) $ (163) $ 1,603 Center closure charges 99 99 Severance and other costs 27 1 28 Legal matter 40 40 IKC adjustment (55) (55) (55) Earn-out revaluation (8) (8) (8) Goodwill impairment 26 26 26 Adjusted operating income (loss) $ 1,900 $ (93) $ (7) $ 55 $ (45) $ (122) $ 1,734 Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers. Year ended December 31, 2022 U.S. dialysis Ancillary services Corporate administration U.S. IKC U.S. Other International Total Consolidated (dollars in millions) Operating income (loss) $ 1,565 $ (125) $ (9) $ 37 $ (97) $ (130) $ 1,339 Center closure charges 86 3 3 88 Severance and other costs 17 5 5 1 23 Adjusted operating income (loss) $ 1,668 $ (124) $ (9) $ 44 $ (89) $ (129) $ 1,450 Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers. Year ended December 31, 2023 2022 (dollars in millions) Income from continuing operations before income taxes $ 1,177 $ 966 Less: Noncontrolling owners income primarily attributable to non-tax paying entities (263) (222) Income from continuing operations before income taxes attributable to DaVita Inc. $ 914 $ 744 Income tax expense for continuing operations $ 220 $ 198 Income tax attributable to noncontrolling interests 2 (1) Income tax expense from continuing operations attributable to DaVita Inc. $ 222 $ 197 Effective income tax rate on income from continuing operations attributable to DaVita Inc. 24.3 % 26.5 % Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers. 73 Year ended December 31, 2023 2022 (dollars in millions) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 2,059 $ 1,565 Adjustments to reconcile net cash provided by continuing operating activities to free cash flow from continuing operations: Distributions to noncontrolling interests (281) (268) Contributions from noncontrolling interests 15 15 Expenditures for routine maintenance and information technology (406) (431) Expenditures for developments and relocations (162) (172) Proceeds from sale of self-developed properties 11 109 Free cash flow $ 1,236 $ 817 Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers. Off-balance sheet arrangements and aggregate contractual obligations In addition to the debt obligations and operating lease liabilities reflected on our balance sheet, we have commitments associated with letters of credit as well as certain working capital funding obligations associated with our equity investments in nonconsolidated dialysis ventures that we manage and some we manage that are wholly-owned by third parties. We also have potential obligations to purchase the noncontrolling interests held by third parties in many of our majority-owned dialysis partnerships and other nonconsolidated entities. These obligations are in the form of put provisions that are exercisable at the third-party owners discretion within specified periods as outlined in each specific put provision. For additional information see Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements. The following is a summary of these cash contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2023: 2024 2025-2026 2027-2028 Thereafter Total (dollars in millions) Debt and leases: Long-term debt (1) : Principal payments $ 97 $ 2,733 $ 1,073 $ 4,288 $ 8,191 Interest payments on credit facilities and senior notes 322 610 465 332 1,729 Financing leases (2) 26 64 62 103 255 Operating leases, including imputed interest (2) 496 963 713 989 3,161 $ 941 $ 4,370 $ 2,313 $ 5,712 $ 13,336 Partnership interests subject to put provisions: (3) On-balance sheet: Noncontrolling interests subject to put provisions 1,318 83 53 45 1,499 Off-balance sheet: Non-owned and minority owned put provisions 107 107 $ 1,425 $ 83 $ 53 $ 45 $ 1,606 (1) See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for components of our long-term debt and related interest rates. (2) See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for components of our leases and related interest rates. (3) Represents amounts for which we are contractually committed, should the outside partner exercise its put option. As of December 31, 2023 we had outstanding letters of credit in the aggregate amount of approximately $151 million under a separate bilateral secured letter of credit facility. As of December 31, 2023 we have outstanding purchase agreements with various suppliers to purchase set amounts of dialysis equipment, parts, pharmaceuticals, and supplies. If we fail to meet the minimum purchase commitments under these contracts during any year, we are required to pay the difference to the supplier. For additional information see Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements. 74 We also have certain potential commitments to provide working capital funding, if necessary, to certain nonconsolidated dialysis businesses that we manage and in which we own a noncontrolling equity interest or which are wholly-owned by third parties. For additional information see Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements. Additionally, we expect our 2024 capital expenditures to be consistent with our 2023 capital expenditures. In addition, we have approximately $45 million of existing long-term income tax liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits, including interest and penalties, which are excluded from the table above as reasonably reliable estimates of their timing cannot be made. Finally, on May 25, 2022, we entered into an agreement with Medtronic, Inc. and one of its subsidiaries (collectively, Medtronic) to form a new, independent kidney care-focused medical device company (Mozarc). The transaction closed on April 1, 2023. As a part of this transaction we agreed to pay Medtronic additional consideration of up to $300 million if certain regulatory and commercial milestones are achieved between 2024 and 2028. As of December 31, 2023 we have contingent consideration of $86 million recorded for this obligation which represents its estimated fair value. Contingencies The information in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report is incorporated by reference in response to this item. Critical accounting policies, estimates and judgments Our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. These accounting principles require us to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets, liabilities, contingencies and noncontrolling interests subject to put provisions (redeemable equity interests). All significant estimates, judgments and assumptions are developed based on the best information available to us at the time made and are regularly reviewed and updated when necessary. Actual results will generally differ from these estimates, and such differences may be material. Changes in estimates are reflected in our financial statements in the period of change based upon on-going actual experience trends or subsequent settlements and realizations depending on the nature and predictability of the estimates and contingencies. Certain accounting estimates, including those concerning revenue recognition and accounts receivable, fair value estimates for goodwill and noncontrolling interests, accounting for income taxes, and loss contingencies are considered to be critical to evaluating and understanding our financial results because they involve inherently uncertain matters and their application requires the most difficult and complex judgments and estimates. For additional information, see Part IV Item 15, " Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules" Note 1 "Organization and summary of significant accounting policies " as referred from Part II Item 8, " Financial Statements and Supplementary Data ." Revenue recognition and accounts receivable for our U.S. dialysis patient services . There are significant estimating risks associated with the amount of U.S. dialysis patient service revenue that we recognize in a given reporting period. Payment rates are often subject to significant uncertainties related to wide variations in the coverage terms of the commercial healthcare plans under which we receive payments. In addition, ongoing insurance coverage changes, geographic coverage differences, differing interpretations of contract coverage, and other payor issues complicate the billing and collection process. The measurement and recognition of revenue requires the use of estimates of the amounts that will ultimately be realized considering, among other items, retroactive adjustments that may be associated with regulatory reviews, audits, billing reviews and other matters. Revenues associated with Medicare and Medicaid programs are recognized based on (a) the payment rates that are established by statute or regulation for the portion of the payment rates paid by the government payor (e.g., 80% for Medicare patients) and (b) for the portion not paid by the primary government payor, the estimated amounts that will ultimately be collectible from other government programs providing secondary coverage (e.g., Medicaid secondary coverage), the patient commercial health plan secondary coverage, or the patient. Our dialysis-related reimbursements from Medicare are subject to certain variations under Medicare single bundled payment rate system whereby our reimbursements can be adjusted for certain patient characteristics and other variable factors. Our revenue recognition depends upon our ability to effectively capture, document and bill for Medicare base payment rate and these other factors. In addition, as a result of the potential range of variations that can occur in our dialysis-related reimbursements from Medicare under the single bundled payment rate system, our revenue recognition is subject to a greater degree of estimating risk. Commercial healthcare plans, including contracted managed-care payors, are billed at our usual and customary rates; however, revenue is recognized based on estimated net realizable revenue for the services provided. Net realizable revenue is estimated based on contractual terms for the patients covered under commercial healthcare plans with which we have formal agreements, non-contracted commercial healthcare plan coverage terms if known, estimated secondary collections, historical 75 collection experience, historical trends of refunds and payor payment adjustments (retractions), inefficiencies in our billing and collection processes that can result in denied claims for payments, the estimated timing of collections, changes in our expectations of the amounts that we expect to collect and regulatory compliance matters. Determining applicable primary and secondary coverage for our approximately 200,800 U.S. dialysis patients at any given point in time, together with the changes in patient coverages that occur each month, requires complex, resource-intensive processes. Collections, refunds and payor retractions typically continue to occur for up to three years or longer after services are provided. We generally expect the range of our U.S. dialysis revenue estimating risk to be within 1% of revenue, which can represent as much as approximately 6% of our U.S. dialysis business adjusted operating income. Changes in estimates are reflected in the then-current financial statements based on on-going actual experience trends, or subsequent settlements and realizations depending on the nature and predictability of the estimates and contingencies. Changes in revenue estimates for prior periods are separately disclosed and reported if material to the current reporting period and longer term trend analyses, and have not been significant. Revenues for laboratory services, which are integrally related to our dialysis services, are recognized in the period services are provided at the estimated net realizable amounts to be received. Certain fair value estimates. Fair value measurements and estimates affect, or potentially affect, a variety of elements in the Company's financial statements. Two of the elements most significantly impacted by fair value estimates are the Company's goodwill impairment assessments and remeasurements of its noncontrolling interests subject to put provisions balance. Goodwill is not amortized, but is assessed for impairment at least annually, or when changes in circumstances warrant. An impairment charge is recorded when and to the extent a reporting unit's carrying amount is determined to exceed its estimated fair value. Changes in circumstance that may trigger a goodwill impairment assessment for one of our business units can include, among others, changes in the legal environment, addressable market, business strategy, development or business plans, reimbursement structure or rates, operating performance, future prospects, relationships with partners, interest rates and/or market value indications for the subject business. We use a variety of factors to assess changes in the financial condition, future prospects and other circumstances for businesses subject to goodwill impairment assessment. However, these assessments and the related valuations can involve significant uncertainties and require significant judgment on various matters. The Company is also required to remeasure its noncontrolling interests subject to put provisions to estimated fair value each reporting period. These estimates also require substantive judgment on meaningful uncertainties concerning this significant balance. See Notes 16 and 23 to the consolidated financial statements for a summary of the Company's approach to these valuations, the variables and uncertainties involved, and the sensitivity of these valuations to changes in a primary aggregate valuation metric. Accounting for income taxes . Our income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits reflect management best assessment of estimated current and future taxes to be paid. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous state and foreign jurisdictions, and changes in tax laws or regulations may be proposed or enacted that could adversely affect our overall tax liability. The actual impact of any such laws or regulations could be materially different from our current estimates. Significant judgments and estimates are required in determining our consolidated income tax expense. Deferred income taxes arise from temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements, which will result in taxable or deductible amounts in the future. In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets within the jurisdictions from which they arise, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, results of recent operations, and assumptions about the amount of future federal, state, and foreign pre-tax operating income adjusted for items that do not have tax consequences. The assumptions about future taxable income require significant judgments and are consistent with the plans and estimates we use to manage the underlying businesses. To the extent that recovery is not likely, a valuation allowance is established. The allowance is regularly reviewed and updated for changes in circumstances that would cause a change in judgment about the realizability of the related deferred tax assets. Loss contingencies. As discussed in Notes 1 and 15 to the consolidated financial statements, we operate in a highly regulated industry and are party to various lawsuits, claims, qui tam suits, governmental investigations and audits (including, without limitation, investigations or other actions resulting from our obligation to self-report suspected violations of law), contract disputes and other legal proceedings. Assessments of such matters can involve a series of complex judgments about future events and can rely heavily on estimates and assumptions. We record accruals for loss contingencies on such matters to the extent that we determine an unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. See Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report for further discussion. 76 Significant new accounting standards See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report for information regarding certain recent financial accounting standards that have been issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). 
