CIK: 1136893
Company Name: FIDELITY NATIONAL INFORMATION SERVICES INC 
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2024-02-26
Accession Number: 0001136893-24-000015


Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following section discusses management's view of the financial condition and results of operations of FIS and its consolidated subsidiaries as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, and for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, unless otherwise noted. This section should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements. See "Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information" and " Risk Factors " in Item 1A of this Annual Report for a discussion of the uncertainties, risks and assumptions associated with these forward-looking statements that could cause future results to differ materially from those reflected in this section. Business Trends and Conditions Our revenue from continuing operations is primarily derived from a combination of technology and processing solutions, transaction processing fees, professional services and software license fees. While we are a global company and do business around the world, the majority of our revenue is generated by clients in the U.S. The majority of our international revenue is generated by clients in the U.K., Germany, Canada, Brazil, Australia and Switzerland. In addition, the majority of our revenue has historically been recurring and has been provided under multi-year Banking and Capital Markets contracts that contribute relative stability to our revenue stream. These solutions, in general, are considered critical to our clients' operations. Professional services revenue is typically non-recurring, though recognition often occurs over time rather than at a point in time. Sales of software licenses are typically non-recurring with point-in-time recognition and are less predictable. The U.S. and Europe, the two largest geographic areas for our businesses, are experiencing slower economic growth than in previous years. Lengthening sales cycles observed in 2022, particularly for large Banking transactions with a total contract value in excess of $50 million, persisted during most of 2023, which we believe resulted from economic uncertainty. We also experienced, and continue to experience, higher rates of inflation in these markets, including increasing wage and benefits rates, which management believes is in part due to inflation and in part due to competitive job markets for the skilled employees who support our businesses, as well as increasing non-labor-related costs. The magnitude of future effects of slower economic growth, including lengthy sales cycles and inflation, is difficult to predict, although these factors have had an adverse effect on our results of operations and, to the extent they persist, may continue to have a negative effect. Rising interest rates have had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on our interest expense; however, planned debt reduction is expected to decrease our total interest expense. In 2022, the strengthening of the U.S. dollar had a negative impact on our revenue and earnings, while in 2023, impacts of foreign currency fluctuations were slightly favorable. Given the volatility of exchange rates and the mix of currencies involved in both revenues and expenses, the direction and magnitude of future effects of currency fluctuations are uncertain. The combined effect of the factors noted above resulted in 2023 revenue growth being slower than in 2022, and 2023 net earnings declined compared to 2022. Over the longer term, we are targeting improvements in revenue growth and margins to the extent of improving economic conditions and in response to planned management actions, including our Future Forward program discussed below. Slowing growth trends affecting our discontinued operations observed over the second half of 2022, reflecting both slower economic growth, particularly in the U.K., and competitive pressures, continued over the course of 2023. In 2022, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $17.6 billion related to the held-for-sale reporting unit, reflecting our intermediate-term growth expectations. In the second quarter of 2023, we recorded an additional $6.8 billion goodwill impairment, reflective of the price at which we agreed to sell a majority interest in the Worldpay Merchant Solutions business to Buyer as discussed further below. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for further details on the goodwill impairments. Also as discussed in Note 3, the Company recorded a $1.9 billion valuation allowance against the assets held for sale in the disposal group, primarily as a result of the exclusion of certain deferred tax liabilities that were not transferring to the Joint Venture in the Worldpay Sale. As of January 31, 2024, the closing date of the Worldpay Sale, the assets held for sale, net of the valuation 30 Table of Contents allowance, and the liabilities held for sale were derecognized, and any additional gain or loss on sale will be recorded in our discontinued operations for the first quarter of 2024. On January 31, 2024, the Company completed the previously announced Worldpay Sale for cash consideration in a transaction valuing the Worldpay Merchant Solutions business at an enterprise value of $18.5 billion, including $1.0 billion of consideration contingent on the returns realized by Buyer exceeding certain thresholds. The net cash proceeds received by FIS at the closing were greater than $12 billion, net of estimated closing adjustments, debt restructuring fees, taxes and transaction costs. The closing adjustments relate to estimated closing levels of the Worldpay Merchant Solutions business' debt, working capital relative to an agreed target and available cash relative to an agreed minimum of not less than $1.5 billion and will be trued-up post-closing. We intend to use proceeds from the sale to retire debt and return additional capital to shareholders through our existing share repurchase authorization, as well as for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions, while maintaining an investment grade credit rating. As of the closing, we retained a non-controlling 45% ownership interest in a new standalone Joint Venture. In future reports, FIS' share of the net income of the Joint Venture will be reported as equity method investment earnings (loss). In connection with the sale, FIS and Worldpay have entered into commercial agreements, preserving a key value proposition for clients of both businesses and minimizing potential dis-synergies. FIS and Worldpay also entered into additional agreements as described in Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements. In November 2022, we launched an enterprise-wide efficiency program, Future Forward, with a focus on streamlining operations, accelerating time to market of new solutions and improving profitability and cash flow. As of December 31, 2023, on a continuing operations basis, we achieved annualized run-rate Future Forward cash savings of over $550 million exiting the quarter, including over $370 million of operational expense savings and approximately $180 million of capital expense savings. We continue to expect cash savings exiting 2024 of $1.0 billion, of which over 75 percent represents run-rate cash savings. We continue to assist financial institutions and other businesses in migrating to outsourced integrated technology solutions to improve their profitability and address increasing and ongoing regulatory requirements. As a provider of outsourced solutions, we benefit from multi-year recurring revenue streams, which help moderate the effects of broader year-to-year economic and market changes that otherwise might have a larger impact on our results of operations. We believe our integrated solutions and outsourced services are well-positioned to address this outsourcing trend across the markets we serve. We continue to invest in modernization, innovation and integrated solutions to meet the demands of the markets we serve and compete with global banks, financial and other technology providers, and emerging technology innovators. We invest both internally and through investment opportunities in companies building complementary technologies in the financial services space. Our internal development activities have related primarily to the modernization of our proprietary core systems in each of our segments, design and development of next-generation digital and innovative solutions and development of processing systems and related software applications and risk management platforms. We expect to continue to invest an appropriate level of resources to maintain, enhance and extend the functionality of our proprietary systems and existing software applications, to develop new and innovative software applications and systems to address emerging technology trends in response to the needs of our clients, and to enhance the capabilities of our outsourcing infrastructure. Consumer preference continues to shift from traditional branch banking services to digital banking solutions, and our clients seek to provide a single integrated banking experience through their branch, mobile, internet and voice banking channels. We have been providing our large regional banking customers in the U.S. with Digital One, an integrated digital banking platform, and are now adding functionality and offering Digital One to our community bank clients to provide a consistent, omnichannel experience for consumers of banking services across self-service channels like mobile banking and online banking, as well as supporting channels for bank staff operating in bank branches and contact centers. The uniform customer experience extends to support a broad range of financial services including opening new accounts, servicing of existing accounts, money movement, and personal financial management, as well as other consumer, small business and commercial banking capabilities. Digital One is integrated into several of the core banking platforms offered by FIS and is also offered to customers of non-FIS core banking systems. Consolidation within the banking industry has occurred and may continue, primarily in the form of merger and acquisition activity among financial institutions, which we believe would broadly be detrimental to the profitability of the financial technology industry. However, consolidation resulting from specific merger and acquisition transactions may be beneficial to our business. When consolidations of financial institutions occur, merger partners often operate systems obtained from competing service providers. The newly formed entity generally makes a determination to migrate its core and payments systems to a single platform. When a financial institution processing client is involved in a consolidation, we may benefit by their expanding the use of our solutions if such solutions are chosen to survive the consolidation and to support the newly combined entity. Conversely, we may lose revenue if we are providing solutions to both entities, or if a client of ours is 31 Table of Contents involved in a consolidation and our solutions are not chosen to support the newly combined entity. It is also possible that larger financial institutions resulting from consolidation may have greater leverage in negotiating terms or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the solutions that we currently provide or could provide. We seek to mitigate the risks of consolidations by offering other competitive solutions to take advantage of specific opportunities at the surviving company. Recent U.S. bank failures could negatively impact our results to the extent more of our customers become illiquid; however, our current exposure to recent closures is limited, and we may be a long-term beneficiary of these closures. As a leading provider of financial technology services to the top 100 U.S. banks by asset size as well as other global financial institutions, FIS boasts a highly diversified customer base, with no single customer accounting for more than approximately 2% of 2023 revenue from continuing operations. With respect to U.S. financial institution customers that closed during 2023, FIS expects to continue to provide services for the majority of these banks, and our revenue exposure from potential contract terminations related to these banks is not material. Further, FIS' core banking customer contracts are generally structured with fees that increase based on the number of active accounts or transactions rather than the amount of deposits. Thus, to the extent account volume increases, we are positioned to benefit from this growth as a leading core banking services provider to large financial institutions. We continue to see demand in the payments market for innovative solutions that will deliver faster, more convenient payment options in mobile channels, internet applications, in-store cards, and digital currencies. The payment processing industry is adopting new technologies, developing new solutions, evolving new business models, and being affected by new market entrants and by an evolving regulatory environment. As financial institutions respond to these changes by seeking solutions to help them enhance their own offerings to consumers, including the ability to accept card-not-present payments in eCommerce and mobile environments as well as contactless cards and mobile wallets at the point of sale, FIS believes that payment processors will seek to develop additional capabilities in order to serve clients' evolving needs. To facilitate this expansion, we believe that payment processors will need to enhance their technology platforms so they can deliver these capabilities and differentiate their offerings from other providers. We believe that these market changes present both an opportunity and a risk for us, and we cannot predict which emerging technologies or solutions will be successful. However, FIS believes that payment processors, like FIS, that have scalable, integrated business models, provide solutions across the payment processing value chain and utilize broad distribution capabilities will be best-positioned to enable emerging alternative electronic payment technologies in the long term. Further, FIS believes that its depth of capabilities and breadth of distribution will enhance its position as emerging payment technologies are adopted by merchants and other businesses. FIS' ability to partner with non-financial institution enterprises, such as mobile payment providers and internet, retail and social media companies, continues to create attractive growth opportunities as these new entrants seek to become more active participants in the development of alternative electronic payment technologies and to facilitate the convergence of retail, online, mobile and social commerce applications. Cyberattacks on information technology systems and the vendors and technological supply chain they rely on continue to grow in frequency, complexity and sophistication. This is a trend we expect to continue. The continued growth in the frequency, complexity and sophistication of cyberattacks presents both a threat and an opportunity for FIS. Using expertise we have gained from our ongoing focus and investment, we have developed and we offer fraud, security, risk management and compliance solutions to target this growth opportunity in the financial services industry. We also use certain of these solutions to manage our own risks. See Item 1C for additional discussion of how the Company assesses, identifies, and manages cybersecurity risks. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The accounting policies and estimates described below are those we consider critical in preparing our consolidated financial statements. These policies require management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures with respect to contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual amounts could differ from those estimates. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for a more detailed description of the significant accounting policies that have been followed in preparing our consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition Application of GAAP related to the measurement and recognition of revenue requires us to make judgments and estimates. Specifically, complex arrangements with nonstandard terms and conditions may require significant contract interpretation in the 32 Table of Contents determination of distinct performance obligations. Other judgments may include the evaluation of the standalone selling price for each performance obligation and whether separate contracts should be combined and considered part of one arrangement. The determination as to whether individual promised solutions or services can be considered distinct or should instead be combined with other promised solutions or services in a contract may require judgment. We assess the solutions and services promised in our contracts with customers and identify a performance obligation for each promise to transfer to the customer a solution or service (or bundle of solutions or services) that is distinct - i.e., if a solution or service is separately identifiable from other items in the bundled package and if a customer can benefit from it on its own or with other resources that are readily available to the customer. Due to the large number, broad nature and average size of our individual customer contracts, the impact of judgments and assumptions that we apply in recognizing revenue for any single contract is not likely to have a material effect on our consolidated operations or financial position. However, the accounting policies that we apply across similar contracts, products or classes of clients could significantly influence the timing and amount of revenue recognized in our historical and future results of operations or financial position. Purchase Accounting We allocate the purchase price of acquired businesses to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the transaction at their estimated fair values. The estimates used to determine the fair value of long-lived assets, such as intangible assets and software, are complex and require a significant amount of management judgment. We typically engage third-party valuation specialists to assist us in making fair value determinations. The third-party valuation specialists generally use discounted cash flow models, which require internally-developed assumptions, to determine the acquisition fair value of customer relationship intangible assets and developed technology software assets. Assumptions for customer relationship asset valuations typically include forecasted revenue attributable to existing customer contracts and relationships, estimated annual attrition, forecasted margin, and estimated weighted average cost of capital and discount rates. Assumptions for software asset valuations typically include forecasted revenue attributable to the software assets, obsolescence rates, estimated royalty rates and estimated weighted average cost of capital and discount rates. The forecasted revenue and margins used in the discounted cash flow models are critical estimates in determining the fair value of customer relationships and developed technology software assets as these estimates are influenced by many factors including historical financial information and management expectation for future operating results as a combined company. While we use our best estimates and assumptions to determine the fair values of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed, our estimates are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. As a result, during the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, we record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to our consolidated statements of earnings. We had no significant business combinations during 2023 and 2022. Goodwill Impairment The Company assesses goodwill for impairment by reporting unit on an annual basis during the fourth quarter or more frequently if circumstances indicate potential impairment. Our reporting units are the same as our primary operating segments, with additional reporting units for certain non-strategic businesses within the Corporate and Other segment. Goodwill impairment assessments require a significant amount of management judgment, and a meaningful change in one or more of the underlying forecasts, estimates, or assumptions used in testing goodwill for impairment could result in a material impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations. Based on the results of our assessments, goodwill of the reporting units in our continuing operations was not impaired in any of the periods presented. Our annual impairment test may first consider qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that a reporting unit's carrying amount exceeds its fair value. Qualitative factors include macroeconomic conditions, industry and market conditions, cost factors, overall financial performance and events affecting the reporting unit or Company as a whole, including a sustained decrease in stock price. As a result of the qualitative assessment, if we conclude that it is more likely than not that the reporting unit's fair value is less than its carrying amount as a result of the qualitative assessment, or we elect to bypass the qualitative assessment for a reporting unit, then we must perform a quantitative assessment for that reporting unit. When a quantitative assessment is triggered or elected, we typically engage third-party valuation specialists to assist us in determining the fair value of the reporting unit based on the weighted average of two valuation techniques: an income approach 33 Table of Contents (also known as the discounted cash flow method) and a market approach. The income approach calculates a value based upon the present value of estimated future cash flows, while the market approach uses earnings multiples of similarly situated guideline public companies. The income approach involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions regarding forecasted revenue, growth rates, operating margins, capital expenditures, and other factors used to calculate estimated future cash flows. In addition, risk-adjusted discount rates and future economic and market conditions and other assumptions are applied. The market approach involves the selection of guideline public companies and earnings multiples considering factors such as markets of operation, solutions offered, and risk profiles. The income approach used to assess goodwill for impairment is a critical estimate because the forecasted revenue growth rate and margin assumptions (including long-term growth assumptions) underlying the estimated future cash flows are subject to management judgment based upon the best available market information, internal forecasts and operating plans. A deterioration in these assumptions could adversely impact our results. The income approach is also particularly sensitive to the risk-adjusted discount rate selected. For our Banking and Capital Markets reporting units, for which previous third-party valuations have historically indicated substantial excess of fair value over carrying amounts, our 2021 qualitative annual assessment concluded that it remained more likely than not that the fair value of each of the reporting units continued to exceed their respective carrying amounts. For 2022, we performed a quantitative annual assessment which again concluded that the fair values of these reporting units substantially exceeded their respective carrying amounts. For 2023, we performed a qualitative annual assessment of these reporting units and concluded that it remained more likely than not that the fair values of these reporting units continued to exceed their respective carrying amounts. Given the substantial excess of fair value over carrying amounts, we believe the likelihood of obtaining materially different results based on a change of assumptions to be low. Related-Party Transactions We are a party to certain historical related-party agreements as discussed in Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. In connection with the closing of the Worldpay Sale, we entered into several agreements with certain Worldpay entities, as further described in Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements. Consolidated Results of Operations Year ended December 31, $ Change % Change 2023 vs 2022 vs 2023 vs 2022 vs 2023 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021 (In millions) Revenue $ 9,821 $ 9,719 $ 9,339 $ 102 $ 380 1 % 4 % Cost of revenue (6,145) (6,216) (5,990) 71 (226) (1) 4 Gross profit 3,676 3,503 3,349 173 154 5 5 Gross profit margin 37 % 36 % 36 % Selling, general and administrative expenses (2,096) (2,182) (2,115) 86 (67) (4) 3 Asset impairments (113) (103) (194) (10) 91 NM NM Operating income 1,467 1,218 1,040 249 178 20 17 Operating margin 15 % 13 % 11 % Revenue Revenue for the year ended December 31, 2023, increased primarily due to strong recurring revenue growth in the Banking and Capital Markets segments. Revenue for the year ended December 31, 2022, increased primarily due to strong recurring revenue growth in the Banking and Capital Markets segments. Revenue was negatively impacted by unfavorable foreign currency movements, primarily related to a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the British Pound Sterling and Euro. See "Segment Results of Operations" below for more detailed explanation. 34 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit and Gross Profit Margin Cost of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2023, decreased due to lower intangible asset amortization resulting primarily from using accelerated amortization methods which apply a declining rate over time, contributing to higher gross profit and gross profit margin. Cost of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2022, increased due to the revenue variances noted above and cost inflation, partially offset by lower intangible asset amortization resulting primarily from foreign currency movements. Gross profit increased primarily due to revenue variances noted above. Gross profit margin was essentially flat when comparing 2022 to 2021. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2023, decreased primarily due to lower acquisition, integration and other costs partially offset by inflation, which increased corporate expenses as compared to the prior year period. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2022, increased primarily due to higher compensation and acquisition-related expenses. The 2021 period included accelerated stock compensation expense recorded associated with the establishment of the Qualified Retirement Equity Program that modified our existing stock compensation plans as described in Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements. Asset Impairments The year ended December 31, 2023, included impairments primarily related to the termination of certain internally developed software projects. For the year ended December 31, 2022, the Company also recorded impairments related to real estate, a non-strategic business and certain software assets. For the year ended December 31, 2022, the Company recorded impairments primarily related to real estate, a non-strategic business and certain software assets. During 2021, the Company recorded impairments primarily related to certain software and deferred contract cost assets driven by the Company's platform modernization. Operating Income and Operating Margin The annual change in operating income and operating margin for the year ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 resulted from the revenue and cost variances noted above. Total Other Income (Expense), Net Year ended December 31, $ Change % Change 2023 vs 2022 vs 2023 vs 2022 vs 2023 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021 Other income (expense): (In millions) Interest expense, net $ (621) $ (281) $ (212) $ (340) $ (69) (121) % (33) % Other income (expense), net (183) 4 (109) (187) $ 113 NM NM Total other income (expense), net $ (804) $ (277) $ (321) (527) $ 44 NM NM The increase in interest expense, net during the year ended December 31, 2023, was primarily due to higher interest rates on our variable-rate debt, including the impact of our fixed-to-variable interest rate swaps discussed further in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements, offset in part by increased interest income. The increase in interest expense, net during the year ended December 31, 2022, was primarily due to increased interest expense on senior notes refinanced in 2022 and our variable-rate instruments. Other income (expense), net for the periods presented consists of various income and expense items outside of the Company's operating activities, including foreign currency transaction remeasurement gains and losses; realized and unrealized gains and losses on equity security investments, including impairment losses on these investments; and fair value adjustments 35 Table of Contents on certain non-operating assets and liabilities, including certain derivatives as further described in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. The $(187) million net change in Other income (expense), net during the year ended December 31, 2023, related primarily to foreign currency transaction remeasurement losses and the impact of the change in fair value of interest rate swaps accounted for as economic hedges during the year ended December 31, 2023. See Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the interest rate swaps. The $113 million net change in Other income (expense), net during the year ended December 31, 2022, related primarily to several events that were recorded in the results for the year ended December 31, 2021, and were not repeated in 2022, including a loss on extinguishment of debt of approximately $(528) million (as discussed in Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements), partially offset by a gain on the sale of our equity ownership interest in Cardinal Holdings of approximately $225 million (as discussed in Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements) and a gain of $174 million related to fair value adjustments on equity security investments. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes Year ended December 31, $ Change % Change 2023 vs 2022 vs 2023 vs 2022 vs 2023 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021 (In millions) Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ 157 $ 325 $ 403 $ (168) $ (78) NM NM Effective tax rate 24 % 35 % 56 % The decrease in the effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2023, was predominately driven by the decrease in GAAP pre-tax earnings. The effective tax rate for 2021 includes the one-time net remeasurement of certain deferred tax liabilities due to the increase in the U.K. corporate statutory tax rate from 19% to 25% effective April 1, 2023, enacted on June 10, 2021. Discontinued Operations Year ended December 31, $ Change % Change 2023 vs 2022 vs 2023 vs 2022 vs 2023 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021 (In millions) Revenue $ 4,859 $ 4,809 $ 4,538 $ 50 $ 271 1 % 6 % Earnings (loss) from discontinued operations related to major classes of pre-tax earnings (loss) $ (5,549) $ (17,276) $ 65 11,727 (17,341) NM NM Loss on assets held for sale $ (1,909) $ $ (1,909) NM NM Earnings (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax attributable to FIS $ (7,157) $ (17,328) $ 97 10,171 (17,425) NM NM Revenue from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2023, increased from the prior year primarily due to eCommerce volume growth. Revenue from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2022, increased from the prior year primarily due to eCommerce volume growth, aided by the ongoing global economic recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic. For the year ended December 31, 2023, earnings (loss) from discontinued operations related to major classes of pre-tax earnings (loss) was primarily a result of a $6.8 billion goodwill impairment recorded as discussed in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements. For the year ended December 31, 2022, earnings (loss) from discontinued operations related to major classes of pre-tax earnings (loss) was primarily a result of a $17.6 billion goodwill impairment recorded as discussed in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements. 36 Table of Contents For the year ended December 31, 2023, we recorded a pre-tax loss on the disposal of discontinued operations of $1.9 billion, reflecting the establishment of a valuation allowance to reduce the Worldpay Merchant Solutions disposal group's carrying value down to fair value less cost to sell as discussed in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements. For the year ended December 31, 2023, loss from discontinued operations, net of tax decreased primarily due to a reduction in the goodwill impairment recorded during the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the goodwill impairment recorded during the year ended December 31, 2022, partially offset by the valuation allowance recorded in the third and fourth quarters of 2023, as noted above. For the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to 2021, the loss from discontinued operations, net of tax was driven primarily due to the goodwill impairment recorded during the year ended December 31, 2022, as discussed above. Segment Results of Operations FIS reports its financial performance based on the following segments: Banking Solutions, Capital Market Solutions, and Corporate and Other. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net earnings (loss) before net interest expense, net other income (expense), income tax provision (benefit), depreciation and amortization, and excludes certain costs and other transactions that management deems non-operational in nature or that otherwise improve the comparability of operating results across reporting periods by their exclusion. This measure is reported to the chief operating decision maker for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to the segments and assessing their performance. For this reason, Adjusted EBITDA, as it relates to our segments, is presented in conformity with FASB ASC Topic 280, Segment Reporting . The items affecting the segment profit measure generally include purchase price amortization of acquired intangible assets as well as acquisition, integration and certain other costs and asset impairments. These costs and adjustments are recorded in the Corporate and Other segment for the periods discussed below. Adjusted EBITDA for the respective segments excludes the foregoing costs and adjustments. Financial information, including details of Adjusted EBITDA, for each of our segments is set forth in Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements. Banking Solutions Years ended December 31, $ Change % Change 2023 vs 2022 vs 2023 vs 2022 vs 2023 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021 (In millions) Revenue $ 6,733 $ 6,624 $ 6,361 $ 109 $ 263 2 % 4 % Adjusted EBITDA $ 2,928 $ 2,882 $ 2,894 46 (12) 2 Adjusted EBITDA margin 43.5 % 43.5 % 45.5 % Adjusted EBITDA margin basis points change (200) Year ended December 31, 2023, compared to 2022: Revenue in our Banking segment increased 2% for the year ended December 31, 2023. Recurring revenue contributed 3% to total segment growth, as payments volumes increased year over year, including in our commercial services and value-added processing businesses. Non-recurring and professional services revenue contributed a combined (1%) to total segment growth. Adjusted EBITDA increased year over year due to the revenue impacts noted above and savings generated from the Company's Future Forward initiatives. Adjusted EBITDA margin was flat year over year, as Future Forward cost savings offset unfavorable revenue mix year over year, including a reduction in high-margin license and termination fee revenue. Year ended December 31, 2022, compared to 2021: Revenue in our Banking segment increased 4% for the year ended December 31, 2022. Recurring revenue contributed 5% to total segment growth, primarily due to the ramp-up of several large contracts. Revenue was negatively impacted by foreign 37 Table of Contents currency movements, which contributed (1%) to total segment growth primarily related to a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the Euro and the British Pound Sterling. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin decreased as the revenue impacts noted above were offset by lower-margin revenue mix and cost inflation. Capital Market Solutions Years ended December 31, $ Change % Change 2023 vs 2022 vs 2023 vs 2022 vs 2023 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021 (In millions) Revenue $ 2,766 $ 2,631 $ 2,495 $ 135 $ 136 5 % 5 % Adjusted EBITDA $ 1,390 $ 1,338 $ 1,235 52 103 4 8 Adjusted EBITDA margin 50.3 % 50.9 % 49.5 % Adjusted EBITDA margin basis points change (60) 140 Year ended December 31, 2023, compared to 2022: Revenue in our Capital Markets segment increased 5% for the year ended December 31, 2023. Recurring revenue contributed 6% to total segment growth due to strong new sales momentum and continued movement to a SaaS-based recurring revenue model. Professional services revenue contributed (1%) to total segment growth. Adjusted EBITDA increased year over year due to the revenue impacts noted above. Adjusted EBITDA margin declined year over year due to revenue mix. Year ended December 31, 2022, compared to 2021: Revenue in our Capital Markets segment increased 5% for the year ended December 31, 2022. Recurring revenue contributed 7% to total segment growth due to strong new sales momentum and continued movement to a SaaS-based recurring revenue model. Revenue was also negatively impacted by unfavorable foreign currency movements, which contributed (2%) to total segment growth primarily related to a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the British Pound Sterling. Adjusted EBITDA increased primarily due to the revenue impacts noted above. Adjusted EBITDA margin increased primarily due to continued expense management and operating leverage. Corporate and Other Years ended December 31, $ Change % Change 2023 vs 2022 vs 2023 vs 2022 vs 2023 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021 (In millions) Revenue $ 322 $ 464 $ 483 $ (142) $ (19) (31) % (4) % Adjusted EBITDA $ (346) $ (259) $ (360) (87) 101 34 (28) Year ended December 31, 2023, compared to 2022: Revenue in our Corporate and Other segment decreased 31% for the year ended December 31, 2023, due to the ramp down of non-strategic businesses, as well as prior year divestitures. Adjusted EBITDA decreased as a result of the revenue impacts noted above, as well as higher corporate expenses as compared to the prior year period. 38 Table of Contents Year ended December 31, 2022, compared to 2021: Revenue in the Corporate and Other segment decreased 4% for the year ended December 31, 2023, primarily due to divestitures of non-strategic businesses in 2022 as well as client attrition in our non-strategic businesses. Adjusted EBITDA increased due to lower corporate costs as compared to prior year. Adjusted EBITDA was positively impacted by favorable foreign currency movements related to a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the British Pound Sterling and Indian Rupee. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Requirements Our principal ongoing cash requirements include operating expenses, income taxes, mandatory debt service payments, capital expenditures, stockholder dividends, working capital and timing differences in settlement-related assets and liabilities and may include discretionary debt repayments, share repurchases and business acquisitions. Our principal sources of funds are cash generated by operations and borrowings, including the capacity under our Revolving Credit Facility, the U.S. commercial paper program and the Euro-commercial paper program discussed in Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements, in addition to the net proceeds from the Worldpay Sale which closed on January 31, 2024. As of December 31, 2023, the Company had $3,053 million of available liquidity, including $440 million of cash and cash equivalents, exclusive of discontinued operations, and $2,613 million of capacity available under its Revolving Credit Facility and Incremental Revolving Credit Facility. Approximately $9 million of cash and cash equivalents is held by our foreign entities, including amounts related to regulatory requirements. The majority of our domestic cash and cash equivalents relates to settlement payables and net deposits-in-transit, which are typically settled within a few business days. Debt outstanding totaled $19.1 billion, with an effective weighted average interest rate of 3.5%. As of December 31, 2023, our assets held for sale included $1,380 million of cash and cash equivalents which the Company will not be able to access following the separation of the Worldpay Merchant Solutions business. Such amount of cash and cash equivalents in assets held for sale is inclusive of $1,190 million in cash and cash equivalents held by foreign entities, including amounts related to regulatory requirements. Although we continue to evaluate the optimal capital structure for our business following the completion of the Worldpay Sale, we intend to maintain investment grade debt ratings for FIS. We believe that our current level of cash and cash equivalents plus cash flows from operations will be sufficient to fund our operating cash requirements, capital expenditures and mandatory debt service payments for the next 12 months and the foreseeable future. In February 2024, the Board of Directors approved a quarterly dividend of $0.36 per share beginning with the first quarter of 2024. A regular quarterly dividend of $0.36 per common share is payable on March 22, 2024, to shareholders of record as of the close of business on March 8, 2024. We currently expect to continue to pay quarterly dividends at a target payout ratio consistent with our capital allocation strategy, without regard to net earnings (loss) attributable to the non-controlling interest retained in Worldpay post-separation. However, the amount, declaration and payment of future dividends is at the discretion of the Board of Directors and depends on, among other things, our investment opportunities (including potential mergers and acquisitions), results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, future prospects, and other factors, including legal and contractual restrictions, that may be considered relevant by our Board of Directors. Additionally, the payment of cash dividends may be limited by covenants in certain debt agreements. In January 2021, our Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program under which it authorized the Company to repurchase up to 100 million shares of our common stock at management's discretion from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions and through Rule 10b5-1 plans. The share repurchase program has no expiration date and may be suspended for periods, amended or discontinued at any time. Under the share repurchase program, the Company repurchased approximately 9 million shares for an aggregate of $0.5 billion in 2023, 21 million shares for an aggregate of $1.8 billion in 2022 and approximately 15 million shares for an aggregate of $2.0 billion during 2021. Approximately 55 million shares remain available for repurchase as of December 31, 2023. We plan to continue to prioritize debt reduction and share repurchases under the current share repurchase authorization. We now intend to repurchase approximately at least $3.5 billion of our shares outstanding by year end 2024. 39 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Operations Our net cash provided by operating activities consists primarily of net earnings, adjusted to add back depreciation and amortization and other non-cash items including asset impairments. Cash flows from operations, inclusive of discontinued operations, were $4,335 million, $3,939 million and $4,810 million in 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for cash provided by operating activities of discontinued operations). Cash flows from operations increased $396 million in 2023 and decreased $871 million in 2022. The 2023 increase in cash flows from operations is primarily due to working capital improvements, partially offset by settlement timing. The 2022 decrease in cash flows from operations is primarily due to a decrease in net earnings and settlement timing, partially offset by working capital. Cash Flows from Investing Our principal investing activity relates to capital expenditures for software (purchased and internally developed) and property and equipment. Inclusive of discontinued operations, we invested approximately $1,122 million, $1,390 million and $1,251 million in capital expenditures (excluding other financing obligations for certain hardware and software) during 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for capital expenditures from discontinued operations). We expect to continue investing in software and in property and equipment to support our business. We also invest in acquisitions that complement and extend our existing solutions and capabilities and provide additional solutions to our portfolio, and we dispose of assets that are no longer considered strategic. In the fourth quarter of 2023, we paid $202 million related to new acquisitions. In 2021, we used approximately $767 million of cash (net of cash acquired, including restricted cash) for an acquisition within the Worldpay Merchant Solutions business, which is included in discontinued operations. In 2021, we received approximately $367 million of cash for the net proceeds from the sale of our equity ownership interest in Cardinal Holdings. We expect to continue to invest in acquisitions as part of our strategy to add solutions to help win new clients and cross-sell to existing clients. Cash flows from investing also occasionally include cash received or paid relative to other activities that are not regularly recurring in nature. In 2023, we paid approximately $20 million, and in 2022, we received approximately $726 million, of net cash related to the settlement of cross-currency interest rate swaps. Cash Flows from Financing Cash flows from financing principally involve borrowing funds, repaying debt and the payment of dividends. For information regarding the Company's debt and financing activity, see "Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Indebtedness" in Item 1A and "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate Risk" in Item 7A of this Annual Report and Notes 13 and 14 to the consolidated financial statements. In 2023, we paid $173 million related to the 2020 Virtus acquisition to redeem a put option exercised by the founders as described in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. Cash flows from financing activities for 2023, 2022 and 2021 also included payments on contingent value rights and a tax receivable agreement, which are included in discontinued operations. Contractual Obligations FIS' long-term contractual obligations generally include its long-term debt, interest on long-term debt including the impact of accounting hedges, net coupon payments on undesignated interest rate swaps, lease payments on certain of its property and equipment and payments for certain purchase commitments and other obligations. See Notes 13, 14 and 15 to the consolidated financial statements for information on our long-term debt, financial instruments and operating leases, respectively. The following table summarizes FIS' other significant contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2023 (in millions): Payments Due in Less than 1-3 3-5 More than Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years Interest (1) $ 3,617 $ 558 $ 607 $ 502 $ 1,950 Purchase commitments (2) 868 466 393 9 Interest rate swap net coupons (3) 778 127 217 217 217 Total $ 5,263 $ 1,151 $ 1,217 $ 728 $ 2,167 40 Table of Contents (1) The amounts above include the impact of accounting hedges and assume that (a) applicable margins and commitment fees remain constant; (b) variable-rates in effect as of December 31, 2023, remain constant; (c) no refinancing occurs at debt maturity; (d) only mandatory debt repayments are made; (e) no new hedging transactions are effected; and (f) there are no future currency effects. (2) Includes obligations principally for software, maintenance, and consulting and outsourced services, including cloud hosting and data centers. (3) The amounts above reflect the net coupon payments on the fixed-to-variable and offsetting variable-to-fixed interest rate swaps, as described in Note 14, that result in a net fixed coupon spread payable by the Company; the amounts also assume that there are no future currency effects. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance No new accounting pronouncement adopted or effective during the fiscal year had or is expected to have material impact on our consolidated financial statements or disclosures. Recent Accounting Guidance Not Yet Adopted See Note 2 (u) to the consolidated financial statements for information on recent accounting guidance not yet adopted. No other newly issued accounting pronouncements not yet effective during the fiscal year are expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements or disclosures. 
