CIK: 1144215
Company Name: ACUITY BRANDS INC
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2023-10-26
Accession Number: 0001144215-23-000090


Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The purpose of this discussion and analysis is to enhance the understanding and evaluation of the results of operations, financial position, cash flows, indebtedness, and other key financial information of Acuity Brands, Inc. (referred to herein as we, our, us, the Company, or similar references) and its subsidiaries for the fiscal years ended August 31, 2023 and 2022. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included within this report. A discussion of the year ended August 31, 2022 compared to the year ended August 31, 2021 can be found within Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis within our fiscal 2022 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 26, 2022. Overview Company We are a market-leading industrial technology company. We use technology to solve problems in spaces and light. Through our two business segments, Acuity Brands Lighting and Lighting Controls ( ABL ) and the Intelligent Spaces Group ( ISG ), we design, manufacture, and bring to market products and services that make a valuable difference in people's lives. We achieve growth through the development of innovative new products and services, including lighting, lighting controls, building management solutions, and location-aware applications. Financial Condition, Capital Resources, and Liquidity We have numerous sources of capital, including cash on hand and cash flows generated from operations, as well as various sources of financing. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations or to access certain capital markets, including banks, is necessary to meet our capital allocation priorities, which are to invest in our current business for growth, to invest in mergers and acquisitions, to maintain our dividend, and to make share repurchases. Sufficient cash flow generation is also critical to fund our operations in the short and long terms and to maintain compliance with covenants contained in our financing agreements. Our significant contractual cash requirements as of August 31, 2023 primarily include principal and interest on our unsecured notes, accounts payable, accrued employee compensation, and operating lease liabilities. We had no borrowings outstanding under our credit agreement as of August 31, 2023. Further details on our borrowings and operating lease liabilities are outlined in the Debt and Lines of Credit and Leases footnotes of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements , respectively, within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additionally, we incur purchase obligations in the ordinary course of business that are enforceable and legally binding. Contractual purchase obligations subsequent to August 31, 2023 include $302.6 million in fiscal 2024. Contractual purchase obligations beyond fiscal 2024 are not significant. We believe that we will be able to meet our liquidity needs over the next 12 months based on our cash on hand, current projections of cash flows from operations, and borrowing availability under financing arrangements. Additionally, we believe that our cash flows from operations and sources of funding, including, but not limited to, future borrowings and borrowing capacity, will sufficiently support our long-term liquidity needs. In the event of a sustained market deterioration, we may need additional capital, which would require us to evaluate available alternatives and take appropriate actions. Cash Our cash position at August 31, 2023 was $397.9 million, an increase of $174.7 million from August 31, 2022. Cash generated from operating activities and cash on hand were used during the current year to fund our capital allocation priorities as discussed below. We generated $578.1 million of cash flows from operating activities during fiscal 2023 compared with $316.3 million in the prior-year period, an increase of $261.8 million. This increase was due primarily to increased cash collections from customers and fewer inventory purchases during the current period, partially offset by the timing of payments for purchases on account. 19 Table of Contents Financing Arrangements See the Debt and Lines of Credit footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within this Annual Report on Form 10-K for discussion of the terms of our various financing arrangements, including the $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2.150% senior unsecured notes due December 15, 2030 (the Unsecured Notes ) as well as the terms of our $600.0 million five-year unsecured revolving credit facility (the Revolving Credit Facility ). At August 31, 2023, our outstanding debt balance was $495.6 million, which consisted solely of our Unsecured Notes, compared to our cash position of $397.9 million. We were in compliance with all covenants under our financing arrangements as of August 31, 2023. At August 31, 2023, we had additional borrowing capacity under the Revolving Credit Facility of $596.2 million under the most restrictive covenant in effect at the time, which represents the full amount of the facility less the outstanding letters of credit of $3.8 million issued under the facility. As of August 31, 2023, our cash on hand combined with the additional borrowing capacity under the revolving credit facility totaled approximately $994.1 million. The Unsecured Notes were issued by Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Acuity Brands, Inc. The Unsecured Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by Acuity Brands, Inc. and ABL IP Holding LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Acuity Brands, Inc. The following tables present summarized financial information for Acuity Brands, Inc., Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc., and ABL IP Holding LLC on a combined basis after the elimination of all intercompany balances and transactions between the combined group as well as any investments in non-guarantors as of the dates and during the period presented (in millions): Summarized Balance Sheet Information August 31, 2023 August 31, 2022 Current assets $ 995.7 $ 1,056.6 Current assets due from non-guarantor affiliates 326.4 280.2 Non-current assets 1,377.9 1,414.3 Current liabilities 464.2 620.4 Non-current liabilities 785.4 821.0 Summarized Income Statement Information Year Ended August 31, 2023 Net sales $ 3,310.4 Gross profit 1,417.2 Net income 329.7 Capital Allocation Priorities Our capital allocation priorities are to invest in our current business for growth, to invest in mergers and acquisitions, to maintain our dividend, and to make share repurchases. Investments in Current Business for Growth We invested $66.7 million and $56.5 million in property, plant, and equipment in fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively. We invested more in fiscal 2023 primarily on new and enhanced equipment, facility improvements, and information technology. Strategic Acquisitions, Investments, and Divestitures We seek opportunities to strategically expand and enhance our portfolio of solutions. On May 15, 2023, using cash on hand, we acquired all of the equity interests of KE2 Therm Solutions, Inc. ( KE2 Therm ). KE2 Therm develops and provides intelligent refrigeration control solutions that deliver the precision of digital controls to promote safety, efficiency, and reliability, while delivering cost savings to the customer. This acquisition is intended to expand ISG's technology and controls product portfolio and reach new customers. We sold our Sunoptics prismatic skylights business in November 2022. We recognized a pre-tax loss of $11.2 million on the sale of this business. 20 Table of Contents There were no acquisitions or divestitures during fiscal 2022. The $12.9 million of cash outflows in fiscal 2022 reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows primarily relate to working capital settlements for fiscal 2021 acquisitions. Please refer to the Acquisitions and Divestitures footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Dividends We paid dividends on our common stock of $16.8 million ($0.52 per share) in fiscal 2023 and $18.1 million ($0.52 per share) in fiscal 2022, indicating a quarterly dividend rate of $0.13 per share. All decisions regarding the declaration and payment of dividends are at the discretion of the Board of Directors (the Board ) and are evaluated regularly in light of our financial condition, earnings, growth prospects, funding requirements, applicable law, and any other factors the Board deems relevant. Share Repurchases During fiscal 2023, we repurchased 1.6 million shares of our outstanding common stock for $269.3 million. Total cash outflows for share repurchases during fiscal 2023 were $266.6 million. We expect to repurchase shares on an opportunistic basis subject to various factors including stock price, Company performance, market conditions, and other possible uses of cash. As of August 31, 2023, the maximum number of shares that may yet be repurchased under the share repurchase program authorized by the Board equaled 1.2 million shares. Results of Operations The following is a discussion of our results of operations in fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022. A discussion of our fiscal 2022 results of operations compared to fiscal 2021 can be found within Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis within our fiscal 2022 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 26, 2022. The following table sets forth information comparing the components of net income for the year ended August 31, 2023 with the year ended August 31, 2022 (in millions except per share data): Year Ended August 31, Increase Percent 2023 2022 (Decrease) Change Net sales $ 3,952.2 $ 4,006.1 $ (53.9) (1.3) % Cost of products sold 2,239.0 2,333.4 (94.4) (4.0) % Gross profit 1,713.2 1,672.7 40.5 2.4 % Percent of net sales 43.3 % 41.8 % 150 bps Selling, distribution, and administrative expenses 1,212.9 1,163.0 49.9 4.3 % Special charges 26.9 26.9 NM Operating profit 473.4 509.7 (36.3) (7.1) % Percent of net sales 12.0 % 12.7 % (70) bps Other expense: Interest expense, net 18.9 24.9 (6.0) (24.1) % Miscellaneous expense (income), net 7.8 (9.1) 16.9 NM Total other expense 26.7 15.8 10.9 NM Income before income taxes 446.7 493.9 (47.2) (9.6) % Percent of net sales 11.3 % 12.3 % (100) bps Income tax expense 100.7 109.9 (9.2) (8.4) % Effective tax rate 22.5 % 22.3 % Net income $ 346.0 $ 384.0 $ (38.0) (9.9) % Diluted earnings per share $ 10.76 $ 11.08 $ (0.32) (2.9) % NM - not meaningful 21 Table of Contents Net Sales Net sales of $3.95 billion for the year ended August 31, 2023 decreased by $53.9 million, or 1.3%, compared with the prior-year period due to declines in sales within our ABL segment, partially offset by higher sales within our ISG segment. The divestiture from our Sunoptics prismatic skylight business, the acquisition of KE2 Therm, and changes in foreign currency rates did not have a meaningful impact on net sales for the year ended August 31, 2023. Gross Profit Gross profit for the year ended August 31, 2023 increased $40.5 million, or 2.4%, to $1.71 billion compared with $1.67 billion for the prior year, and gross profit margin increased 150 basis points to 43.3% for fiscal 2023 compared with 41.8% in the prior-year period. Our gross profit increased compared with the prior year on lower sales as we strategically managed price. This increase was partially offset by higher labor costs as well as the recognition of a $13.0 million charge resulting from the collectability of a supplier warranty obligation owed to us for components we used in products manufactured and sold between 2017 and 2019. Operating Profit Selling, distribution, and administrative expenses of $1.21 billion for the year ended August 31, 2023 increased $49.9 million, or 4.3%, compared with the prior year. This increase was due primarily to higher employee-related costs and higher commissions. We also recognized special charges of $26.9 million during fiscal year 2023. Please refer to the Special Charges footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details. Operating profit for fiscal 2023 was $473.4 million compared with $509.7 million reported for the prior-year period, a decrease of $36.3 million, or 7.1%. The decrease in operating profit for fiscal 2023 compared with fiscal 2022 was due to the recognition of special charges in fiscal 2023 as well as increased operating expenses, partially offset by an increase in gross profit. Interest Expense, net Interest expense, net, was $18.9 million and $24.9 million for the years ended August 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The decrease in net interest expense was due to increased investing rates on our interest-bearing cash cash equivalents. compared to the prior year, partially offset by changes in average short-term borrowings outstanding. Miscellaneous Expense (Income), net Miscellaneous expense (income), net consists of non-service related components of net periodic pension cost, gains and losses associated with foreign currency-related transactions, and non-operating gains and losses. We reported net miscellaneous expense of $7.8 million in fiscal 2023 compared with net miscellaneous income of $9.1 million in fiscal 2022. This year-over-year change was due primarily to the recognition of an $11.2 million loss on the sale of our Sunoptics prismatic skylights business in fiscal 2023 and an impairment charge of $2.5 million for one unconsolidated equity investment, as well as higher pension cost. These amounts were partially offset by higher gains on foreign currency-related items compared to the prior year. The details of the Sunoptics sale are described in the Acquisitions and Divestitures footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . The details of the equity investment impairment charge are included in the Fair Value Measurements footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . Income Taxes and Net Income Our effective income tax rate was 22.5% and 22.3% for the years ended August 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Further details regarding income taxes are included in the Income Taxes footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . Net income for fiscal 2023 decreased $38.0 million, or 9.9%, to $346.0 million from $384.0 million reported for the prior year. The decrease in net income resulted primarily from a decrease in operating profit compared to the prior-year period. 22 Table of Contents Diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2023 was $10.76 compared with $11.08 for the prior-year period, a decrease of $0.32, or 2.9%. This decrease reflects lower net income, partially offset by lower outstanding diluted shares. Segment Results The following tables set forth information comparing the operating results of our segments, ABL and ISG, for the year ended August 31, 2023 with the year ended August 31, 2022 (in millions): Year Ended August 31, 2023 2022 Increase (Decrease) Percent Change ABL: Net sales $ 3,722.8 $ 3,810.1 $ (87.3) (2.3) % Operating profit 509.5 545.6 (36.1) (6.6) % Operating profit margin 13.7 % 14.3 % (60) bps ISG: Net sales $ 252.7 $ 216.1 $ 36.6 16.9 % Operating profit 32.1 22.7 $ 9.4 41.4 % Operating profit margin 12.7 % 10.5 % 220 bps ABL net sales for the year ended August 31, 2023 decreased 2.3% compared with the prior-year period due primarily to lower net sales within original equipment manufacturer ("OEM") and other, independent sales network, and corporate accounts channels, partially offset by higher net sales in direct sales network and retail sales channels. Operating profit for ABL was $509.5 million (13.7% of ABL net sales) for the year ended August 31, 2023 compared to $545.6 million (14.3% of ABL net sales) in the prior-year period, a decrease of $36.1 million. The decrease in operating profit was due primarily to special charges of $25.0 million, the recognition of a $13.0 million charge related to the collectability of a supplier receivable, and lower net sales. These declines were partially offset by our strategic management of price. ISG net sales for the year ended August 31, 2023 increased 16.9% compared with the prior-year period driven primarily by strong demand for building and heating, ventilation, and air conditioning controls as well as price increases. ISG operating profit was $32.1 million (12.7% of ISG net sales) for the year ended August 31, 2023 compared with $22.7 million (10.5% of ISG net sales) in the prior-year period, an increase of $9.4 million. This increase was due primarily to contributions from higher sales, partially offset by increased employee costs. Accounting Standards Adopted in Fiscal 2023 and Accounting Standards Yet to Be Adopted See the New Accounting Pronouncements footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on recently adopted and upcoming standards. Critical Accounting Estimates Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations addresses the financial condition and results of operations as reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements , which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ( U.S. GAAP ). As discussed in the Description of Business and Basis of Presentation footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements , the preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements as well as reported amounts of revenue and expense during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments. We base our estimates and judgments on our substantial historical experience and/or other relevant factors, such as projections of future performance, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results could differ from those estimates. We discuss the development of accounting estimates with our Audit Committee of the Board of Directors on a recurring basis. See the Significant Accounting Policies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of our accounting policies. 23 Table of Contents We believe the following accounting topics represent our critical accounting estimates. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue when we transfer control of goods and services to our customers. Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration we expect to receive in exchange for goods and services. In the period of revenue recognition, we estimate and record provisions for certain rebates, sales incentives, product returns, and discounts to customers, in most instances, as reductions of revenue. We also maintain one-time or on-going marketing and trade-promotion programs with certain customers that require us to estimate and accrue the expected costs of such programs. Generally, these items are estimated based on customer agreements, historical trends, and expected demand. For sales with multiple deliverables, significant judgment may be required to determine which performance obligations are distinct and should be accounted for separately. We allocate the expected consideration to be collected to each distinct performance obligation based on its standalone selling price. Standalone selling price is generally estimated using a cost plus margin valuation when no observable input is available. Actual results could differ from estimates, which would require adjustments to recorded amounts. Please refer to the Revenue Recognition footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding estimates related to revenue recognition. Inventories Inventories include materials, direct labor, inbound freight, customs, duties, tariffs, and related manufacturing overhead. Inventories are stated on a first-in, first-out basis at the lower of cost and net realizable value. We review inventory quantities on hand and record a provision for excess or obsolete inventory primarily based on estimated future demand and current market conditions. A significant change in customer demand, market conditions, or technology could render certain inventory obsolete and thus could have a material adverse impact on our operating results in the period the change occurs. Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets Indefinite-lived intangible assets consist of trade names acquired through multiple acquisitions that are expected to generate cash flows indefinitely. Significant estimates and assumptions were used to both identify and determine the initial fair value of these acquired intangible assets, often with the assistance of third-party valuation specialists. These assumptions include, but are not limited to, estimated future net sales and profitability, customer attrition rates, royalty rates, and discount rates. Goodwill is calculated as the residual value of an acquisition's purchase price less the value of the identifiable net assets and is thus dependent on the appropriate identification and valuation of the net assets obtained in an acquisition. We review goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis in the fiscal fourth quarter and on an interim basis if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not indicate that the fair value of the goodwill or an indefinite-lived asset is below its carrying value. An impairment loss for goodwill or an indefinite-lived intangible asset would be recognized based on the difference between the carrying value of the asset and its estimated fair value, which would be determined based on either discounted future cash flows or another appropriate fair value method. The evaluation of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles for impairment requires management to use significant judgments and estimates in accordance with U.S. GAAP including, but not limited to, economic, industry, and Company-specific qualitative factors, projected future net sales, operating results, and cash flows. We currently believe that the estimates used in the evaluation of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles are reasonable, including our calculations of fiscal 2023 trade name impairment charges described below. However, future differences between actual and expected net sales, operating results, and cash flows and/or changes in the discount rates or theoretical royalty rates used could require us to record additional non-cash impairment charges to earnings for the write-down in the value of such assets. Such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position but not our cash flows from operations. Goodwill We performed our annual goodwill impairment analyses on the first day of our fiscal fourth quarter (June 1) for each period presented. Goodwill was tested for impairment at the reporting unit level using a combination of discounted future cash flows and relevant market multiples. Our discounted cash flow analyses required significant assumptions about discount rates, short and long-term growth rates, and future profitability. For the tests performed as of June 1, 2023, we utilized estimated discount rates ranging from 11% to 13%. These rates were based on the 24 Table of Contents Capital Asset Pricing Model, which considers a risk-free interest rate, beta, market risk premium, and size premium to determine an appropriate discount rate for a reporting unit. Short-term growth rates were based on management forecasted financial results, which consider key business drivers such as specific revenue growth initiatives, market share changes, growth in our addressable market, and general economic factors such as macroeconomic conditions, credit availability, and interest rates. We calculated the discounted cash flows attributable to our reporting units for a 10-year discrete period with a terminal value and compared this calculation to the discounted cash flows generated over a 40-year period to corroborate the reasonableness of assumptions used. The long-term growth rate used in determining terminal value was estimated at 2.5% and was primarily based on our understanding of projections for expected long-term growth in our addressable market and historical long-term performance. We corroborate the values determined from our discounted cash flow models using a relevant market multiple, generally published earnings and/or revenue multiples. We also reconcile the sum of the fair values for each reporting unit to our market capitalization at the testing date, including consideration of a control premium. Any reasonably likely change in the assumptions used in these analyses, including revenue growth rates, discount rates, long-term growth rates, or relevant multiples would not cause the carrying value of any reporting unit to exceed its estimated fair value as determined under the goodwill impairment analysis. See the Significant Accounting Policies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets We performed our annual indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment analyses on the first day of our fiscal fourth quarter (June 1) for each period presented. As of June 1, 2023, the current fiscal year testing date, we held 13 indefinite-lived intangible assets with an aggregate carrying value of $173.4 million. We utilized significant assumptions to estimate the fair value of these indefinite-lived trade names using a fair value model based on discounted future cash flows ( fair value model ) in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification ( ASC ) Topic 820, Fair Value Measurement ( ASC 820 ). Future cash flows associated with each of our indefinite-lived trade names are calculated by multiplying a theoretical royalty rate a willing third party would pay for use of the particular trade name by estimated future net sales attributable to the relevant trade name. The present value of the resulting after-tax cash flows is our current estimate of the fair value of each trade name. This fair value model requires us to make several significant assumptions, including specific estimated future net sales (including short and long-term growth rates), a royalty rate, and a discount rate for each trade name. Our fiscal 2023 analyses resulted in impairment charges and the determination that certain assets no longer had indefinite lives. As of August 31, 2023, we held eight indefinite-lived intangible assets with an aggregate carrying value of $135.6 million. See the Significant Accounting Policies and Fair Value Measurement footnotes of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details regarding the assumptions used and results of our annual impairment tests for the periods presented. Share-based Payment Expense We recognize compensation cost for share-based payment transactions in the financial statements under the provisions of ASC Topic 718, Compensation Stock Compensation ( ASC 718 ). Restricted stock awards, performance stock awards, stock options, and director stock units representing certain deferrals into the Nonemployee Director Deferred Compensation Plan (the Director Plan ) are valued based on their estimated grant date fair values. Depending on the nature of the grant, an award's fair value is based on the fair value of our common stock on the grant date, a Black-Scholes model, or a Monte Carlo simulation. We generally recognize compensation cost for share-based payment transactions on a straight-line basis over an award's requisite service period, derived service period, or expected performance period. In certain circumstances, such as when a performance award is subject to graded vesting, we apply the accelerated attribution method to recognize compensation cost related to our share-based payment awards. When the actual number of awards earned is based on future performance, we recognize expense when it becomes probable that the performance metric will be satisfied. Additionally, we estimate forfeitures of all share-based awards at the time of grant. We adjust forfeiture estimates for awards through their vesting dates to recognize compensation cost only for awards that actually vest. Forfeitures are estimated based on historical experience. If factors change causing different assumptions to be made in future periods, estimated compensation expense may differ significantly from that recorded in the current period. See the Share-based Payments footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on these awards, including assumptions used in estimating the fair value of our awards. 25 Table of Contents Product Warranty and Recall Costs Our products generally have a standard warranty term of five years. We accrue for the estimated amount of future warranty costs when the related revenue is recognized. Estimated future warranty costs are primarily based on historical experience of identified warranty claims. Estimated costs related to product warranty and recall costs outside of our historical experience, which could include significant product recalls or formal campaigns soliciting repair or return of a product, are accrued when they are deemed to be probable and can be reasonably estimated. Any estimated or actual loss recoveries that offset our costs and payments are reflected as assets based on the timing of receipt of recovery net of any amounts deemed uncollectible. We are fully self-insured for product warranty costs. Although we expect that historical activity will continue to be the best indicator of future warranty costs, there can be no assurance that future warranty costs will not exceed historical amounts. If actual future warranty or recall costs exceed recorded amounts, additional accruals may be required, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flow. We also sell certain service-type warranties that extend coverages for products beyond their base warranties. We account for service-type warranties as distinct performance obligations, allocate an appropriate amount of transaction price to these transactions, and recognize revenue for these contracts ratably over the life of the additional warranty period. We allocate transaction price to our service-type warranties largely based on expectations of cost plus margin based on our estimate of future claims. These estimates are subject to a higher level of estimation uncertainty than other estimates, as we have less experience in costs in the extended warranty period. Claims related to service-type warranties are expensed as incurred. Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Information This filing contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the Act ). Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements that describe or relate to the Company plans, initiatives, projections, vision, goals, targets, commitments, expectations, objectives, prospects, strategies, or financial outlook, and the assumptions underlying or relating thereto. In some cases, we may use words such as expect, believe, intend, anticipate, estimate, forecast, indicate, project, predict, plan, may, will, could, should, would, potential, and words of similar meaning, as well as other words or expressions referencing future events, conditions, or circumstances, to identify forward-looking statements. We intend these forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Act. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. Our forward-looking statements are based on our current beliefs, expectations, and assumptions, which may not prove to be accurate, and are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control. These risks and uncertainties could cause actual events or results to differ materially from our historical experience and management present expectations or projections. These risks and uncertainties are discussed in our filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including this annual report on Form 10-K (including, but not limited to, Part I, Item 1a. Risk Factors ), quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect any events or circumstances after the date of this quarterly report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. 
