CIK: 1177609
Company Name: FIVE BELOW INC
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2019-03-28
Accession Number: 0001177609-19-000010


ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion together with Selected Financial Data, and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report . The statements in this discussion regarding expectations of our future performance, liquidity and capital resources and other non-historical statements are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described in Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors and Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. Our actual results may differ materially from those contained in or implied by any forward-looking statements. We operate on a fiscal calendar widely used by the retail industry that results in a given fiscal year consisting of a 52- or 53-week period ending on the Saturday closest to January 31 of the following year. References to "fiscal year 2019" or "fiscal 2019" refer to the period from February 3, 2019 to February 1, 2020, which consists of a 52-week fiscal year. References to "fiscal year 2018" or "fiscal 2018" refer to the period from February 4, 2018 to February 2, 2019, which consists of a 52-week fiscal year. References to "fiscal year 2017" or "fiscal 2017" refer to the period from January 29, 2017 to February 3, 2018, which consists of a 53-week fiscal year. References to "fiscal year 2016" or "fiscal 2016" refer to the period from January 31, 2016 to January 28, 2017, which consists of a 52-week fiscal year. References to fiscal year 2015 or fiscal 2015 refer to the period from February 1, 2015 to January 30, 2016, which consists of a 52-week fiscal year. References to fiscal year 2014 or fiscal 2014 refer to the period from February 2, 2014 to January 31, 2015, which consists of a 52-week fiscal year. Historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any future period and results for any interim period may not necessarily be indicative of the results that may be expected for a full year. Overview Five Below is a rapidly growing specialty value retailer offering a broad range of trend-right, high-quality merchandise targeted at the tween and teen customer. We offer a dynamic, edited assortment of exciting products, priced at $5 and below, including select brands and licensed merchandise across our category worlds. As of February 2, 2019 , we operated 750 stores in 33 states. In August 2016, we commenced selling merchandise on the internet, through our fivebelow.com e-commerce website. We launched our e-commerce operation as an additional channel to service our customers. All e-commerce sales, which includes shipping and handling revenue, are included in net sales and beginning with the third fiscal quarter of 2016, are included in comparable sales. Our e-commerce expenses will have components classified as both cost of goods sold and selling, general and administrative expenses. We believe that our business model has resulted in strong financial performance irrespective of the economic environment. Our comparable sales, based on the restated calendar, increased by 3.9% in fiscal 2018 , 6.5% in fiscal 2017 and 2.0% in fiscal 2016 . Between fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2018 , our net sales increased from $1,000.4 million to $1,559.6 million , representing a compounded annual growth rate of 24.9% . Over the same period, our operating income increased from $114.0 million to $187.2 million , representing a compounded annual growth rate of 28.2% . In addition, we expanded our store base from 522 stores at the end of fiscal 2016 to 750 stores at the end of fiscal 2018 . We plan to open approximately 145 to 150 new stores in fiscal 2019 . We expect to continue our strong growth in the future. By offering trend-right merchandise at a differentiated price point of $5 and below, our stores have been successful in varying geographic regions, population densities and real estate settings. As of February 2, 2019 , we operated stores in 33 states in the Northeast, South, Midwest and West regions of the United States. We are primarily located in power, community and lifestyle shopping centers across a variety of urban, suburban and semi-rural markets with trade areas including at least 100,000 people in the specified market. We believe we have the opportunity to expand our store base in the United States from 750 locations as of February 2, 2019 to more than 2,500 locations over time . Our ability to open profitable new stores depends on many factors, including our ability to identify suitable markets and sites; negotiate leases with acceptable terms; achieve brand awareness in the new markets; efficiently source and distribute additional merchandise; and achieve sufficient levels of cash flow and financing to support our expansion. 36 For the fiscal year ended February 3, 2018, we recorded a provisional net tax benefit of $0.5 million related to the impact of the TCJA. This provisional tax benefit included a one-time $1.5 million remeasurement charge of the net U.S. deferred tax assets to the lower enacted U.S. corporate tax rate of 21% and a $2.0 million tax benefit related to the Company 2017 blended rate of 33.7% as a result of Section 15 of the Internal Revenue Code. December 22, 2018 marked the end of the measurement period for purposes of Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 ("SAB 118"). As such, the Company has completed the analysis based on legislative updates relating to the U.S. TCJA currently available and recorded no additional tax impacts for the year ended February 2, 2019 . While we have completed our accounting of the income tax effects of the U.S. TCJA under SAB 118, the related tax impacts may differ, possibly materially, due to changes in interpretations and assumptions that we have made, additional guidance that may be issued by regulatory bodies, and actions and related accounting policy decisions we may take as a result of the new legislation. We have a proven and highly profitable store model that has produced consistent financial results and returns and our new stores have achieved average payback periods of less than one year. Our new store model assumes a store size of approximately 8,500 square feet that achieves annual sales of approximately $1.8 million in the first full year of operation. Our new store model also assumes an average new store investment of approximately $0.3 million. Our new store investment includes our store build-out (net of tenant allowances), inventory (net of payables) and cash pre-opening expenses. Our planned store expansion will place increased demands on our operational, managerial, administrative and other resources. Managing our growth effectively will require us to continue to maintain adequate distribution capacity, enhance our store management systems, financial and management controls, information systems and other operational system capabilities. In addition, we will be required to hire, train and retain store management and other qualified personnel. For further information, see Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors-Risk Relating to our Business and Industry. Over the past five years we have invested a significant amount of capital in infrastructure and systems necessary to support our future growth and we expect to incur additional capital expenditures related to expansion of our infrastructure and systems in future periods. In fiscal 2015, we invested in a new ERP and began the multi-year implementation of the ERP, which is designed to enhance functionality and provide timely information to the Company's management team related to the operation of the business. In June 2015, we opened a new distribution center in Pedricktown, New Jersey to support our anticipated growth. We occupy approximately 1,000,000 square feet at this distribution center, having expanded from 800,000 square feet in September 2018. In September 2016, we signed a 15-year lease for a new corporate headquarters location in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania to accommodate our current and anticipated future growth. We currently occupy approximately 117,000 square feet of office space and will expand into approximately 50,000 square feet of additional office space by no later than 2020. In March 2019, we completed the purchase of an approximately 700,000 square foot build-to-suit distribution center in Forsyth, Georgia for approximately $42 million, for the land and building, to support our anticipated growth. We are planning to lease or build new distribution centers over the next few years to support our growth objectives. We continuously assess ways to maximize the productivity and efficiency of our existing facilities, infrastructure and systems. The timing and amount of investments in our facilities, infrastructure and systems could affect the comparability of our results of operations in future periods. The completion date and ultimate cost of future projects could differ significantly from initial expectations due to construction-related or other reasons. We believe our business strategy will continue to offer significant opportunity, but it also presents risks and challenges. These risks and challenges include, but are not limited to, that we may not be able to effectively identify and respond to changing trends and customer preferences, that we may not be able to find desirable locations for new stores and that we may not be able to effectively manage our future growth. In addition, our financial results can be expected to be directly impacted by substantial increases in product costs due to commodity cost increases or general inflation which could lead to a reduction in our sales as well as greater margin pressure as costs may not be able to be passed on to consumers. To date, changes in commodity prices and general inflation have not materially impacted our business. In response to increasing commodity prices or general inflation, we seek to minimize the impact of such events by sourcing our merchandise from different vendors and changing our product mix. See Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors for a description of these and other important factors that could adversely impact us and our results of operations. How We Assess the Performance of Our Business In assessing the performance of our business, we consider a variety of performance and financial measures. These key measures include net sales, comparable sales, cost of goods sold and gross profit, selling, general and administrative expenses and operating income. Net Sales Net sales constitute gross sales net of merchandise returns for damaged or defective goods. Net sales consist of sales from comparable stores, non-comparable stores, and e-commerce, which includes shipping and handling revenue. Revenue from the sale of gift cards is deferred and not included in net sales until the gift cards are redeemed to purchase merchandise or as breakage revenue in proportion to the pattern of redemption of the gift cards by the customer. Our business is seasonal and as a result, our net sales fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Net sales are usually highest in the fourth fiscal quarter due to the year-end holiday season. 37 Comparable Sales Comparable sales include net sales from stores that have been open for at least 15 full months from their opening date, and e-commerce sales. Comparable stores include the following: Stores that have been remodeled while remaining open; Stores that have been relocated within the same trade area, to a location that is not significantly different in size, in which the new store opens at about the same time as the old store closes; and Stores that have expanded, but are not significantly different in size, within their current locations. For stores that are relocated or expanded, the following periods are excluded when calculating comparable sales: The period beginning when the closing store receives its last merchandise delivery from one of our distribution centers through: the last day of the fiscal year in which the store was relocated or expanded (for stores that increased significantly in size); or the last day of the fiscal month in which the store re-opens (for all other stores); and The period beginning on the first anniversary of the date the store received its last merchandise delivery from one of our distribution centers through the first anniversary of the date the store re-opened. Comparable sales exclude the 53rd week of sales for 53-week fiscal years. In the 52-week fiscal year subsequent to a 53-week fiscal year, we exclude the sales in the non-comparable week from the same-store sales calculation. Due to the 53rd week in fiscal 2017, comparable sales for the year ended February 2, 2019 are reported on a restated calendar basis. Reference to the "restated calendar is based on using the National Retail Federation's restated calendar comparing similar weeks, which are the fifty-two weeks from February 4, 2018 to February 2, 2019 as compared to the fifty-two weeks from February 5, 2017 to February 3, 2018. There may be variations in the way in which some of our competitors and other retailers calculate comparable or same store sales. As a result, data in this Annual Report regarding our comparable sales may not be comparable to similar data made available by other retailers. Non-comparable sales are comprised of new store sales, sales for stores not open for a full 15 months, and sales from existing store relocation and expansion projects that were temporarily closed (or not receiving deliveries) and not included in comparable sales. Measuring the change in fiscal year-over-year comparable sales allows us to evaluate how our store base is performing. Various factors affect comparable sales, including: consumer preferences, buying trends and overall economic trends; our ability to identify and respond effectively to customer preferences and trends; our ability to provide an assortment of high-quality, trend-right and everyday product offerings that generate new and repeat visits to our stores; the customer experience we provide in our stores and online; the level of traffic near our locations in the power, community and lifestyle centers in which we operate; competition; changes in our merchandise mix; pricing; our ability to source and distribute products efficiently; the timing of promotional events and holidays; the timing of introduction of new merchandise and customer acceptance of new merchandise; our opening of new stores in the vicinity of existing stores; the number of items purchased per store visit; and weather conditions. Opening new stores is an important part of our growth strategy. As we continue to pursue our growth strategy, we expect that a significant percentage of our net sales will continue to come from new stores not included in comparable sales. Accordingly, comparable sales is only one measure we use to assess the success of our growth strategy. 38 Cost of Goods Sold and Gross Profit Gross profit is equal to our net sales less our cost of goods sold. Gross margin is gross profit as a percentage of our net sales. Cost of goods sold reflects the direct costs of purchased merchandise and inbound freight, as well as shipping and handling costs, store occupancy, distribution and buying expenses. Shipping and handling costs include both internal and third-party fulfillment and shipping costs related to our e-commerce operations. Store occupancy costs include rent, common area maintenance, utilities and property taxes for all store locations. Distribution costs include costs for receiving, processing, warehousing and shipping of merchandise to or from our distribution centers and between store locations. Buying costs include compensation expense and other costs for our internal buying organization, including our merchandising and product development team and our planning and allocation group. These costs are significant and can be expected to continue to increase as our company grows. The components of our cost of goods sold may not be comparable to the components of cost of goods sold or similar measures of our competitors and other retailers. As a result, data in this Annual Report regarding our gross profit and gross margin may not be comparable to similar data made available by our competitors and other retailers. The variable component of our cost of goods sold is higher in higher volume quarters because the variable component of our cost of goods sold generally increases as net sales increase. We regularly analyze the components of gross profit as well as gross margin. Any inability to obtain acceptable levels of initial markups, a significant increase in our use of markdowns, and a significant increase in inventory shrinkage or inability to generate sufficient sales leverage on the store occupancy, distribution and buying components of costs of goods sold could have an adverse impact on our gross profit and results of operations. Changes in the mix of our products may also impact our overall cost of goods sold. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative, or SG&A, expenses are composed of payroll and other compensation, marketing and advertising expense, depreciation and amortization expense and other selling and administrative expenses. SG&A expenses as a percentage of net sales are usually higher in lower sales volume quarters and lower in higher sales volume quarters. The components of our SG&A expenses may not be comparable to those of other retailers. We expect that our SG&A expenses will increase in future periods due to our continuing store growth. In addition, any increase in future share-based grants or modifications will increase our share-based compensation expense included in SG&A. Operating Income Operating income equals gross profit less SG&A expenses. Operating income excludes interest expense or income, loss on debt extinguishment and income tax expense or benefit. We use operating income as an indicator of the productivity of our business and our ability to manage SG&A expenses. Operating income percentage measures operating income as a percentage of our net sales. 39 Results of Consolidated Operations The following tables summarize key components of our results of consolidated operations for the periods indicated, both in dollars and as a percentage of our net sales. Fiscal Year 2018 2017 2016 (in millions, except total stores) Consolidated Statements of Operations Data (1) : Net sales $ 1,559.6 $ 1,278.2 $ 1,000.4 Cost of goods sold 994.5 814.8 643.4 Gross profit 565.1 463.4 357.0 Selling, general and administrative expenses 377.9 306.0 243.1 Operating income 187.2 157.4 114.0 Interest income, net 4.6 1.5 0.3 Income before income taxes 191.8 158.8 114.3 Income tax expense 42.2 56.4 42.4 Net income $ 149.6 $ 102.5 $ 71.8 Percentage of Net Sales (1) : Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of goods sold 63.8 % 63.7 % 64.3 % Gross profit 36.2 % 36.3 % 35.7 % Selling, general and administrative expenses 24.2 % 23.9 % 24.3 % Operating income 12.0 % 12.3 % 11.4 % Interest income, net 0.3 % 0.1 % % Income before income taxes 12.3 % 12.4 % 11.4 % Income tax expense 2.7 % 4.4 % 4.2 % Net income 9.6 % 8.0 % 7.2 % Operational Data: Total stores at end of period 750 625 522 Comparable sales growth 3.9 % 6.5 % 2.0 % Average net sales per store (2) $ 2.2 $ 2.2 $ 2.0 (1) Components may not add to total due to rounding. (2) Only includes stores open during the full fiscal year. 40 Fiscal Year 2018 Compared to Fiscal Year 2017 Net Sales Net sales increased to $1,559.6 million in fiscal year 2018 from $1,278.2 million in fiscal year 2017 , an increase of $281.4 million , or 22.0% . The increase was the result of a non-comparable sales increase of $232.3 million and a comparable sales increase of $49.1 million . In fiscal year 2018 , we opened 125 net new stores compared to 103 net new stores in fiscal year 2017 . The increase in non-comparable sales was primarily driven by new stores that opened in fiscal 2018 and the number of stores that opened in fiscal 2017 but have not been open for 15 full months. Comparable sales, based on the restated calendar, increased 3.9% . This increase resulted from an increase of approximately 3.1% in the average dollar value of transactions and an increase of approximately 0.8% in the number of transactions. Cost of Goods Sold and Gross Profit Cost of goods sold increased to $994.5 million in fiscal year 2018 from $814.8 million in fiscal year 2017 , an increase of $179.7 million , or 22.1% . The increase in cost of goods sold was primarily the result of an increase in the merchandise costs of goods resulting from an increase in sales. Also contributing to the increase in cost of goods sold was an increase in store occupancy costs resulting from new store openings. Gross profit increased to $565.1 million in fiscal year 2018 from $463.4 million in fiscal year 2017 , an increase of $101.7 million , or 21.9% . Gross margin decreased to 36.2% for fiscal year 2018 from 36.3% in fiscal year 2017 , a decrease of approximately 10 basis points. The decrease in gross margin was primarily the result of an increase as a percentage of sales in merchandise cost of goods sold partially offset by a decrease as a percentage of sales in store occupancy costs. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased to $377.9 million in fiscal year 2018 from $306.0 million in fiscal year 2017 , an increase of $71.9 million , or 23.5% . As a percentage of net sales, selling, general and administrative expenses increased approximately 30 basis points to 24.2% in fiscal year 2018 compared to 23.9% in fiscal year 2017 . The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses was the result of increases of $59.5 million in store-related expenses to support new store growth and our marketing initiatives and $12.4 million of corporate-related expenses. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense decreased to $42.2 million in fiscal year 2018 from $56.4 million in fiscal year 2017 , a decrease of $14.2 million , or approximately 25.2% . This decrease in income tax expense was primarily the result of the impact of tax reform as a result of the TCJA and due to discrete items, which include the recognition of net excess income tax benefits related to FASB ASU 2016-09, "Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting." These decreases were partially offset by a $33.0 million increase in pre-tax net income. Our effective tax rate for fiscal year 2018 was 22.0% compared to 35.5% in fiscal year 2017 . The decrease in our effective tax rate was primarily driven by the impact of tax reform as a result of the TCJA and the adoption of ASU 2016-09, "Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting," with respect to the requirement to recognize excess income tax benefits or deficiencies as income tax benefit or expense in the consolidated statements of operations rather than as additional paid-in capital in the consolidated balance sheets. For the fiscal year ended February 3, 2018, we recorded a provisional net tax benefit of $0.5 million related to the impact of the TCJA. This provisional tax benefit included a one-time $1.5 million remeasurement charge of the net U.S. deferred tax assets to the lower enacted U.S. corporate tax rate of 21% and a $2.0 million tax benefit related to the Company 2017 blended rate of 33.7% as a result of Section 15 of the Internal Revenue Code. December 22, 2018 marked the end of the measurement period for purposes of SAB 118. As such, we have completed the analysis based on legislative updates relating to the U.S. TCJA currently available and recorded no additional tax impacts for the year ended February 2, 2019 . While we have completed our accounting of the income tax effects of the U.S. TCJA under SAB 118, the related tax impacts may differ, possibly materially, due to changes in interpretations and assumptions that we have made, additional guidance that may be issued by regulatory bodies, and actions and related accounting policy decisions we may take as a result of the new legislation. Net Income As a result of the foregoing, net income increased to $149.6 million in fiscal year 2018 from $102.5 million in fiscal year 2017 , an increase of approximately $47.2 million , or 46.1% . 41 Fiscal Year 2017 Compared to Fiscal Year 2016 Net Sales Net sales increased to $1,278.2 million in fiscal year 2017 from $1,000.4 million in fiscal year 2016, an increase of $277.8 million, or 27.8%. The increase was the result of a non-comparable sales increase of $217.3 million and a comparable sales increase of $60.5 million. In fiscal year 2017, we opened 103 net new stores compared to 85 net new stores in fiscal year 2016. The increase in non-comparable sales was primarily driven by new stores that opened in fiscal 2017 and the number of stores that opened in fiscal 2016 but have not been open for 15 full months and includes approximately $15.7 million of sales contributed by the 53rd week in fiscal 2017. Comparable sales increased 6.5%. This increase resulted from an increase of approximately 5.8% in the number of transactions and an increase of approximately 0.7% in the average dollar value of transactions. Cost of Goods Sold and Gross Profit Cost of goods sold increased to $814.8 million in fiscal year 2017 from $643.4 million in fiscal year 2016, an increase of $171.4 million, or 26.6%. The increase in cost of goods sold was primarily the result of an increase in the merchandise costs of goods resulting from an increase in sales. Also contributing to the increase in cost of goods sold was an increase in store occupancy costs resulting from new store openings. Gross profit increased to $463.4 million in fiscal year 2017 from $357.0 million in fiscal year 2016, an increase of $106.4 million, or 29.8%. Gross margin increased to 36.3% for fiscal year 2017 from 35.7% in fiscal year 2016, an increase of approximately 60 basis points. The increase in gross margin was primarily the result of decreases as a percentage of sales in store occupancy costs and merchandise cost of goods sold. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased to $306.0 million in fiscal year 2017 from $243.1 million in fiscal year 2016, an increase of $62.9 million, or 25.9%. As a percentage of net sales, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased approximately 40 basis points to 23.9% in fiscal year 2017 compared to 24.3% in fiscal year 2016. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses was the result of increases of $42.0 million in store-related expenses to support new store growth and our marketing initiatives and $20.9 million of corporate-related expenses. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense increased to $56.4 million in fiscal year 2017 from $42.4 million in fiscal year 2016, an increase of $14.0 million, or approximately 33.0%. This increase in income tax expense was primarily the result of a $44.6 million increase in pre-tax net income. Our effective tax rate for fiscal year 2017 was 35.5% compared to 37.1% in fiscal year 2016. The decrease in our effective tax rate was primarily driven by discrete items, which include the impact of the adoption of FASB ASU 2016-09, "Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting," with respect to the requirement to recognize excess income tax benefits or deficiencies as income tax benefit or expense in the consolidated statements of operations rather than as additional paid-in capital in the consolidated balance sheets, and the impact of tax reform as a result of the TCJA. The TCJA includes a number of changes to existing U.S. tax laws that impact us, most notably a reduction of the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017. We recorded an additional expense of $1.5 million in deferred income tax expense for the remeasurement of our net deferred tax asset at the 21% tax rate. Additionally, and in accordance with Section 15 of the Internal Revenue Code, we utilized a blended rate of 33.7% for our fiscal 2017 tax year, by applying a prorated percentage of the number of days prior to and subsequent to the January 1, 2018 effective date as compared with the 35% for the 2016 tax year. The effect of this blended rate change is a benefit of $2.0 million. The TCJA also provides for acceleration of depreciation for certain assets placed into service after September 27, 2017, as well as prospective changes beginning in 2018, including additional limitations on deductibility of executive compensation and employee meal benefits. As a result of the TCJA, we expect that the effective tax rate in fiscal 2018 will be approximately 24.5%. The net $0.5 million benefit represents what we believe is the impact of the TCJA in the current year. As the benefit is based on currently available information and interpretations, which are continuing to evolve, the benefit should be considered provisional. We will continue to analyze additional information and guidance related to the TCJA as supplemental legislation, regulatory guidance, or evolving technical interpretations become available. The final impacts may differ from the recorded amounts as of February 3, 2018, and we will continue to refine such amounts within the measurement period provided by SAB 118. 42 Net Income As a result of the foregoing, net income increased to $102.5 million in fiscal year 2017 from $71.8 million in fiscal year 2016, an increase of approximately $30.7 million, or 42.6%. Impact of Inflation Our results of operations and financial condition are presented based on historical cost. While it is difficult to accurately measure the impact of inflation due to the imprecise nature of the estimates required, we believe the effects of inflation, if any, on our historical results of operations and financial condition have been immaterial. We cannot assure you, however, that our results of operations and financial condition will not be materially impacted by inflation in the future. Seasonality Our business is seasonal in nature with the highest level of net sales and net income generated in the fourth fiscal quarter due to the year-end holiday season and, therefore, operating results for any fiscal quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for the full fiscal year. To prepare for the holiday season, we must order and keep in stock more merchandise than we carry during other parts of the year. We expect inventory levels, along with an increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses, generally to reach their highest levels in the third and fourth fiscal quarters in anticipation of the increased net sales during the year-end holiday season. As a result of this seasonality, and generally because of variation in consumer spending habits, we experience fluctuations in net sales, net income and working capital requirements during the year. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview Our primary source of liquidity is cash flows from operations. Our primary cash needs are for capital expenditures and working capital. Capital expenditures typically vary depending on the timing of new store openings and infrastructure-related investments. We plan to make capital expenditures of approximately $170 million in fiscal 2019 , which exclude the impact of tenant allowances, and which we expect to fund from cash generated from operations. We expect to incur approximately $50 million of our capital expenditure budget in fiscal 2019 to construct and open approximately 145 to 150 new stores, with the remainder projected to be spent on our distribution facilities including the new distribution center in Georgia, store relocations and remodels, and our corporate infrastructure. Our primary working capital requirements are for the purchase of store inventory and payment of payroll, rent, other store operating costs and distribution costs. Our working capital requirements fluctuate during the year, rising in the third and fourth fiscal quarters as we take title to increasing quantities of inventory in anticipation of our peak, year-end holiday shopping season in the fourth fiscal quarter. Fluctuations in working capital are also driven by the timing of new store openings. Historically, we have funded our capital expenditures and working capital requirements during the fiscal year with cash on hand, net cash provided by operating activities and borrowings under our Amended Revolving Credit Facility and Revolving Credit Facility. When we have used our Amended Revolving Credit Facility and Revolving Credit Facility, the amount of indebtedness outstanding under it has tended to be the highest in the beginning of the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. To the extent that we have drawn on the facility, we have paid down the borrowings before the end of the fiscal year with cash generated during our peak selling season in the fourth quarter. We did not have any direct borrowings under our Amended Revolving Credit Facility during fiscal year 2018 . As of February 2, 2019 and February 3, 2018 , we had approximately $20.0 million available on the line of credit. On March 20, 2018, our board of directors approved a share repurchase program authorizing the repurchase of up to $100 million of our common stock through March 31, 2021, on the open market, in privately negotiated transactions, or otherwise. In December 2018, we repurchased 21,810 shares under this program at an aggregate cost of approximately $2.0 million. There can be no assurances that any additional repurchases will be completed, or as to the timing or amount of any repurchases. The share repurchase program may be modified or discontinued at any time. Based on our growth plans, we believe that our cash position which includes our cash equivalents and short-term investments, net cash provided by operating activities and availability under our Amended Revolving Credit Facility will be adequate to finance our planned capital expenditures, authorized share repurchases and working capital requirements over the next 12 months and for the foreseeable future thereafter. If cash flows from operations and borrowings under our Amended Revolving Credit Facility are not sufficient or available to meet our requirements, then we will be required to obtain additional equity or debt financing in the future. There can be no assurance that equity or debt financing will be available to us when we need it or, if available, that the terms will be satisfactory to us and not dilutive to our then-current shareholders. 43 Cash Flows A summary of our cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities is presented in the following table (in millions): Fiscal Year 2018 2017 2016 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 184.1 $ 167.4 $ 106.6 Net cash used in investing activities (39.5 ) (139.2 ) (86.8 ) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (5.6 ) 8.4 3.1 Net increase during period in cash and cash equivalents (1) $ 139.1 $ 36.6 $ 23.0 (1) Components may not add to total due to rounding. Cash Provided by Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2018 was $184.1 million , an increase of $16.7 million compared to fiscal 2017 . The increase was primarily due to an increase in operating cash flows from store performance and a decrease in income taxes paid partially offset by changes in working capital. During fiscal 2018 , we added 125 net new stores and expect to add approximately 145 to 150 new stores in fiscal 2019 . Net cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2017 was $167.4 million , an increase of $60.8 million compared to fiscal 2016 . The increase was primarily due to an increase in operating cash flows from store performance partially offset by an increase in income taxes paid. During fiscal 2017 , we added 103 net new stores. Cash Used in Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for fiscal 2018 was $39.5 million , a decrease of $99.7 million compared to fiscal 2017 . The decrease was primarily due to an increase in net sales, maturities, and redemptions of investment securities partially offset by an increase in capital expenditures. The increase in capital expenditures was primarily for our distribution facilities, our new store construction, and our corporate infrastructure. Net cash used in investing activities for fiscal 2017 was $139.2 million , an increase of $52.4 million compared to fiscal 2016 . The increase was primarily due to increases in net purchases of investment securities and capital expenditures. The increase in capital expenditures was primarily for our new store construction, our corporate infrastructure, and our distribution facilities. Cash (Used in) Provided by Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities for fiscal year 2018 was $5.6 million , an increase of $14.0 million compared to fiscal 2017 . The increase was primarily the result of an increase in common shares withheld for taxes, a decrease in the proceeds from the exercise of options to purchase common stock and vesting of restricted and performance-based restricted stock units and an increase in the repurchase and retirement of common stock. Net cash provided by financing activities for fiscal year 2017 was $8.4 million , an increase of $5.2 million compared to fiscal 2016. The increase was primarily the result of increases in the proceeds from the exercise of options to purchase common stock and vesting of restricted and performance-based restricted stock units and a decrease in the common shares withheld for taxes offset by a decrease in excess tax benefits related to exercises of stock options and the vesting of restricted stock units and performance-based restricted stock units driven by the impact of the adoption of ASU 2016-09, "Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting," with respect to excess income tax benefits and deficiencies being classified as an operating activity rather than a financing activity. 44 Line of Credit On May 10, 2017, we entered into a Fourth Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement (the Amended Loan and Security Agreement ), among Five Below Inc., 1616 Holdings, Inc. (formerly known as Five Below Merchandising, Inc.) and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association. The Amended Loan and Security Agreement amends and restates the Third Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement, dated June 12, 2013, among Five Below Inc., 1616 Holdings, Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, which governed the Revolving Credit Facility. The Amended Loan and Security Agreement includes a revolving line of credit in the amount of up to $20.0 million (the Amended Revolving Credit Facility ). Pursuant to the Amended Loan and Security Agreement, advances under the Amended Revolving Credit Facility are no longer tied to a borrowing base; however, we are required to maintain eligible inventory at all times in an amount equal to at least $100.0 million. The Amended Revolving Credit Facility expires on the earliest to occur of (i) May 10, 2022 or (ii) an event of default. The Amended Revolving Credit Facility may be increased to up to $50.0 million, subject to certain conditions. The Amended Revolving Credit Facility also includes a $20.0 million sub limit for the issuance of letters of credit. The Amended Loan and Security Agreement reduces the interest rate payable on borrowings to be, at our option, a per annum rate equal to (a) a prime rate or (b) a LIBOR-based rate plus a margin of 1.00%. Letter of credit fees are equal to the interest rate payable on LIBOR-based loans. The interest rate and letter of credit fees under the Amended Loan and Security Agreement are subject to an increase of 2.00% per annum upon an event of default. The Amended Loan and Security Agreement removes restrictions related to our ability to pay or make dividends and distributions or repurchase our stock, but the Amended Loan and Security Agreement continues to include other customary negative and affirmative covenants including, among other things, limitations on our ability to (i) incur additional debt; (ii) create liens; (iii) make certain investments, loans and advances; (iv) sell assets; (v) engage in mergers or consolidations; or (vi) change our business. The Amended Loan and Security Agreement also removes the provisions that required us to make prepayments on outstanding Amended Revolving Credit Facility balances upon the receipt of certain proceeds, including those from the sale of certain assets. Amounts under the Amended Revolving Credit Facility may become due upon certain events of default including, among other things, our failure to comply with the Amended Revolving Credit Facility covenants, bankruptcy, default on certain other indebtedness or a change in control. Under the Amended Loan and Security Agreement, all obligations under the Amended Revolving Credit Facility continue to be guaranteed by our subsidiary and are secured by substantially all of our and our subsidiary's assets. As of February 2, 2019 and February 3, 2018 , we had approximately $20.0 million available on the line of credit. All obligations under the Amended Revolving Credit Facility are secured by substantially all of our assets and are guaranteed by our subsidiary. As of February 2, 2019 , we were in compliance with the covenants applicable to us under the Amended Revolving Credit Facility. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We have identified the policies below as critical to our business operations and understanding of our consolidated results of operations. The impact and any associated risks related to these policies on our business operations are discussed throughout Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations where such policies affect our reported and expected financial results. Our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, require us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates. For a detailed discussion on the application of these and other accounting policies, see Note 1 in our annual consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report . Inventories Inventories consist of finished goods purchased for resale, including freight, and are stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value, at the individual product level. Cost is determined on a weighted average cost method. The market value used in the lower of cost or market analysis is subject to the effects of consumer demands, customer preferences and the broader economy. The effects of the previously listed criteria are not controllable by management. Our management reviews inventory levels in order to identify obsolete and slow-moving merchandise as these factors can indicate a decline in the market value of inventory on hand. Inventory cost is reduced when the selling price less costs of disposal is below cost. We accrue an estimate for inventory shrink for the period between the last physical count and the balance sheet date. The shrink estimate can be affected by changes in merchandise mix and changes in actual shrink trends. These estimates are derived using available data and our historical experience. Our estimates may be impacted by changes in certain underlying assumptions and may not be indicative of future activity. 45 Impairment of Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets, such as property and equipment, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. Assets are grouped and evaluated for impairment at the lowest level of which there are identifiable cash flows, which is generally at a store level. Assets are reviewed for impairment using factors including, but not limited to, our future operating plans and projected cash flows. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its estimated undiscounted future cash flows, then an impairment charge is recognized as the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. Fair value is based on discounted future cash flows of the asset using a discount rate commensurate with the risk. In the event of a store closure, we will record an impairment charge, if appropriate, or accelerate depreciation over the revised useful life of the asset. Based on the analysis performed, our management believes that there was no impairment of long-lived assets for each of the 2018, 2017 and 2016 fiscal years. The impairment loss analysis requires management to apply judgment and make estimates. Income Taxes Income taxes are accounted for under the asset-and-liability method . Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. We recognize the effect of income tax positions only if those positions are more likely than not of being sustained. Recognized income tax positions are measured at the largest amount that is greater than 50% likely of being realized. Changes in recognition or measurement are reflected in the period in which the change in judgment occurs. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets when uncertainty regarding their realizability exists. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, our management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. Our management considers the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, and tax planning strategies in making this assessment. For the fiscal year ended February 3, 2018, we recorded a provisional net tax benefit of $0.5 million related to the impact of the TCJA. This provisional tax benefit included a one-time $1.5 million remeasurement charge of the net U.S. deferred tax assets to the lower enacted U.S. corporate tax rate of 21% and a $2.0 million tax benefit related to the Company 2017 blended rate of 33.7% as a result of Section 15 of the Internal Revenue Code. December 22, 2018 marked the end of the measurement period for purposes of SAB 118. As such, we have completed the analysis based on legislative updates relating to the U.S. TCJA currently available and recorded no additional tax impacts for the year ended February 2, 2019 . While we have completed our accounting of the income tax effects of the U.S. TCJA under SAB 118, the related tax impacts may differ, possibly materially, due to changes in interpretations and assumptions that we have made, additional guidance that may be issued by regulatory bodies, and actions and related accounting policy decisions we may take as a result of the new legislation. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued ASU 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)." ASU 2014-09 clarifies the principles for recognizing revenue from contracts with customers and outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and supersedes most current revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance. The effective date of this pronouncement is for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those fiscal years. On February 4, 2018, we adopted the pronouncement using the modified retrospective method by recognizing the cumulative effect of gift card breakage as an adjustment to retained earnings resulting in a $0.5 million increase to retained earnings. The comparative information for the years ended prior to February 4, 2018 was not restated to comply with the pronouncement. 46 In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases. ASU 2016-02 requires that lease arrangements longer than 12 months result in an entity recognizing an asset and a liability. The updated guidance is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and early adoption is permitted. The standard requires use of the modified retrospective transition approach. We plan to adopt this pronouncement in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, coinciding with the pronouncement effective date. Our ability to adopt this standard depends on various factors including system readiness and completing an analysis of information necessary to quantify the financial statement impact. We have established a cross-functional team to implement the pronouncement and we have finalized our implementation of a leasing software solution, our assessment of the practical expedients and policy elections offered by the standard, and changes to our business processes, systems and controls to support the adoption of this standard. Additionally, we are in the process of developing drafts of our new footnote disclosures required under the new pronouncement that will be disclosed in our Form 10-Q for the first fiscal quarter of 2019. Although we are still finalizing the quantitative effects of ASU 2016-02, this pronouncement will impact our statement of operations with additional expenses primarily as it relates to the treatment of certain initial direct lease costs that were previously capitalizable. We also expect a significant increase of approximately $600 million to $800 million in total assets and total liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets in the period of adoption given that we have a significant number of leases for our stores. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-09, "Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting." ASU 2016-09 affects all entities that issue share-based payment awards to their employees. This accounting standards update makes several modifications to the accounting for employee share-based payment transactions, including the requirement that the excess income tax benefits or deficiencies that arise when the tax consequences of share-based compensation differ from amounts previously recognized in the consolidated statement of operations be recognized as income tax benefit or expense in the consolidated statement of operations rather than as additional paid-in capital in the consolidated balance sheet. The guidance also clarifies the classification of components of share-based awards on the consolidated statement of cash flows such that excess income tax benefits should not be presented separately from other income taxes in the consolidated statement of cash flows and, thus, should be classified as an operating activity rather than a financing activity as they are under the current guidance. ASU 2016-09 is effective for financial statements issued for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016 and interim periods within those years. We adopted this standard prospectively in the first quarter of fiscal 2017. This standard will result in a decrease or increase to our effective tax rate, net income, and earnings per share based upon the requirement to recognize the excess income tax benefits or deficiencies in the consolidated statements of operations and change our earnings per share calculation to exclude excess tax benefits previously assumed under the treasury stock method. No changes were required related to the classification of employee taxes paid for withheld shares in our consolidated statements of cash flows since we have historically classified these within financing cash flows. In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15, "Customer's Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement that is a Service Contract." ASU 2018-15 requires implementation costs incurred by customers in cloud computing arrangements to be deferred over the noncancellable term of the cloud computing arrangements plus any optional renewal periods (1) that are reasonably certain to be exercised by the customer or (2) for which exercise of the renewal option is controlled by the cloud service provider. The effective date of this pronouncement is for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those fiscal years, and early adoption is permitted. The standard can be adopted either using the prospective or retrospective transition approach. During the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we adopted the pronouncement using the prospective transition method and it did not have a significant impact to our financial statements. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes, as of February 2, 2019 , our minimum rental commitments under operating lease agreements including assumed extensions, minimum payments for long-term debt and other obligations in future periods: (In millions) Payments Due By Period Total (1) Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years Operating lease obligations (2) $ 1,139.0 $ 147.4 $ 297.0 $ 260.4 $ 434.2 Purchase obligations (3) 7.4 7.4 Total $ 1,146.4 $ 154.8 $ 297.0 $ 260.4 $ 434.2 (1) The amounts in this table exclude obligations under employment agreements and approximately $35 million for the remaining balance related to the purchase of the distribution center (land and building) in Forsyth, Georgia. For a discussion of the compensation of our executive officers, see Part III, Item 11 Executive Compensation . (2) Our store leases generally have initial lease terms of 10 years and include renewal options on substantially the same terms and conditions as the original lease. Also included in operating leases are our leases for the corporate office, distribution centers and other. 47 (3) Purchase obligations are primarily for materials that will be used in the construction of new stores and purchase commitments for infrastructure and systems that will be used by the corporate office and distribution centers. From February 4, 2018 to March 28, 2019 , we committed to 19 new store leases with terms of 10 years that have future minimum lease payments of approximately $35.2 million . Off Balance Sheet Arrangements For the fiscal year ended February 2, 2019 , except for operating leases entered into in the normal course of business, we were not party to any material off-balance sheet arrangements that are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, net sales, expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. 
