CIK: 1617406
Company Name: PARK HOTELS RESORTS INC 
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2020-02-27
Accession Number: 0001564590-20-007367


Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements, related notes included thereto and Item 1A., Risk Factors, appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For the discussion and analysis of our 2017 financial condition and results of operations compared to 2018, refer to Item 7., Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. Overview We have a diverse portfolio of iconic and market-leading hotels and resorts with significant underlying real estate value. We currently hold investments in entities that have ownership or leasehold interests in 60 hotels, consisting of premium-branded hotels and resorts with over 33,000 rooms, of which over 86% are luxury and upper upscale and are located in prime U.S. markets and its territories. Our high-quality portfolio includes hotels in major urban and convention areas, such as New York City, Washington, D.C., Chicago, San Francisco, Boston, New Orleans and Denver; premier resorts in key leisure destinations, including Hawaii, Orlando, Key West and Miami Beach; and hotels adjacent to major gateway airports, such as Los Angeles International, Boston Logan International and Miami International, as well as hotels in select suburban locations. Our objective is to be the preeminent lodging real estate investment trust ( REIT ), focused on consistently delivering superior, risk-adjusted returns to stockholders through active asset management and a thoughtful external growth strategy while maintaining a strong and flexible balance sheet. As a pure-play real estate company with direct access to capital and independent financial resources, we believe our enhanced ability to implement compelling return on investment initiatives within our portfolio represents a significant embedded growth opportunity. Finally, given our scale and investment expertise, we believe we will be able to successfully execute single-asset and portfolio acquisitions and dispositions to further enhance the value and diversification of our assets throughout the lodging cycle, including potentially taking advantage of the economies of scale that could come from consolidation in the lodging REIT industry. We operate our business through two operating segments, our consolidated hotels and unconsolidated hotels. Our consolidated hotels operating segment is our only reportable segment. Refer to Note 15: Geographic and Business Segment Information in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere within this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding our operating segments. Basis of Presentation The consolidated financial statements reflect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ( U.S. GAAP ). Refer to Note 2: Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere within this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. Outlook Gross domestic product ( GDP ) increased 2.1% during the fourth quarter of 2019 due to increases in federal, state and local government spending, personal consumption expenditures, residential fixed investments, and exports. Non-residential fixed business investment, a leading indicator of RevPAR performance, declined 1.5% during the quarter. Despite this decline, RevPAR for our comparable hotels increased 2.0% for the year ended December 31, 2019. Our ability to experience continued RevPAR growth in 2020 depends on various factors, including the strength of group and transient demand and the timing of completion of renovation projects at several of our hotels. In addition, RevPAR growth and profitability will depend on several macroeconomic factors, including corporate profitability, consumer confidence, the unemployment rate (and resulting increase in wages) and GDP growth, coupled with supply growth and increased popularity of online booking services and short-term lodging websites, as well as certain conditions beyond our control that shape public perception of travel, including the 2019 Novel Coronavirus. We may experience a negative impact on 2020 RevPAR growth arising from the 2019 Novel Coronavirus outbreak but the full extent of such impact is not yet known. Recent Events On September 18, 2019, pursuant to the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, dated as of May 5, 2019, by and among Park Parent, PK Domestic, Merger Sub and Chesapeake. Chesapeake merged with and into Merger Sub. Our Operating Company continues to directly or indirectly, hold all of our assets and conduct all of our operations. Park Parent owns 100% of the interests in our Operating Company. 42 In November 2019, we and the other owners of the entity that owns the Conrad Dublin closed on the sale of our ownership interests in the entity that owns the hotel for gross proceeds of approximately $128 million. Our pro-rata share of the gross proceeds was approximately $61 million. In December 2019, we sold the Ace Hotel Downtown Los Angeles for gross proceeds of $117 million and the Le Meridien New Orleans for gross proceeds of $84 million. Refer to Note 3: Acquisitions, Dispositions and Assets Held for Sale in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere within this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. Additionally, in December 2019, we terminated the ground lease on the Hilton Sheffield Hotel. Refer to Note 4: Property and Equipment in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere within this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. The proceeds from the sales of the Conrad Dublin, Ace Hotel Downtown Los Angeles and Le Meridian New Orleans were used to pay down $230 million of debt. Refer to Note 7: Debt in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere within this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. In February 2020, we sold the Hilton S o Paulo Morumbi for gross proceeds of approximately $118 million and the Embassy Suites Washington DC Georgetown for gross proceeds of approximately $90 million. Upon the sale of the Hilton S o Paulo Morumbi , we no longer have any international hotels in our portfolio. Principal Components of and Factors Affecting Our Results of Operations Revenues Revenues from our hotels are primarily derived from two categories of customers: transient and group, which account for approximately two thirds and one third, respectively, of our rooms revenue. Transient guests are individual travelers who are traveling for business or leisure. Group guests are traveling for group events that reserve rooms for meetings, conferences or social functions sponsored by associations, corporate, social, military, educational, religious or other organizations. Group business usually includes a block of room accommodations, as well as other ancillary services, such as meeting facilities, catering and banquet services. A majority of our food and beverage sales and other ancillary services are provided to customers who also are occupying rooms at our hotels. As a result, occupancy affects all components of revenues from our hotels. Principal Components Rooms . Represents the sale of room rentals at our hotels and accounts for a substantial majority of our total revenue. Food and beverage . Represents revenue from group functions, which may include both banquet revenue and audio and visual revenue, as well as revenue from outlets such as restaurants and lounges at our hotels. Ancillary hotel. Represents revenue for guest services provided at our hotels, including parking, telecommunications, golf course and spa. Also includes tenant leases and other rental revenue. Other. Represents revenue related to our laundry business and support services we provide to Hilton Grand Vacations ( HGV ) timeshare properties that have a presence within or adjacent to certain of our hotels, which include cost reimbursements for the costs of providing housekeeping, landscaping, general maintenance and other services plus a fee representing a percentage of cost reimbursements. Factors Affecting our Revenues Consumer demand . Consumer demand for our products and services is closely linked to the performance of the general economy and is sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels. Leading indicators of demand include gross domestic product, non-residential fixed investment and the consumer price index. Declines in consumer demand due to adverse general economic conditions, reductions in travel patterns, lower consumer confidence, outbreaks of pandemic or contagious diseases, including the 2019 Novel Coronavirus, and adverse political conditions can lower the revenues and profitability of our hotels. Further, competition for guests and the supply of services at our hotels affect our ability to sustain or increase rates charged to customers at our hotels. As a result, changes in consumer demand and general business cycles have historically subjected and could in the future subject our revenues to significant volatility. In addition, leisure travelers make up the majority of our transient demand. Therefore, we will be significantly more affected by trends in leisure travel than trends in business travel. 43 Supply . New room supply is an important factor that can affect the lodging industry performance. Room rates and occupancy, and thus RevPAR, tend to increase when demand growth exceeds supply growth. The addition of new competitive hotels and resorts affects the ability of existing hotels and resorts to sustain or grow RevPAR, and thus profits. New development is determined largely by construction costs, the availability of financing and expected performance of existing hotels and resorts. Expenses Principal Components Rooms . These costs include housekeeping, reservation systems, room supplies, laundry services at our hotels and front desk costs. Food and beverage . These costs primarily include food, beverage and the associated labor and will correlate closely with food and beverage revenues. Other departmental and support . These costs include labor and other costs associated with other ancillary revenue, such as parking, telecommunications, golf course and spa, as well as labor and other costs associated with administrative departments, sales and marketing, repairs and minor maintenance and utility costs. Additionally, these costs include franchise fees and are generally computed as a percentage of rooms revenues. Refer to Item 1: Business Our Principal Agreements, included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on franchise fees. Other property-level . These costs consist primarily of real and personal property taxes, other local taxes, ground rent, equipment rent and property insurance. Management fees . Base management fees are computed as a percentage of gross revenue. Incentive management fees generally are paid if specified financial performance targets are achieved. Refer to Item 1: Business Our Principal Agreements, included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. Casualty (gain) loss and impairment loss, net. Casualty losses are expenses that represent losses incurred resulting from property damage or destruction caused by any sudden, unexpected or unusual event such as a hurricane. Casualty gains are insurance proceeds for property damage claims that are in excess of any associated impairment loss recognized and clean-up and recovery costs incurred, less any insurance deductible. Impairment losses are non-cash expenses that are recognized when circumstances indicate that the carrying value of a long-lived asset is not recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized for the excess of the carrying value over the fair value of the asset. Depreciation and amortization . These are non-cash expenses that primarily consist of depreciation of fixed assets such as buildings, furniture, fixtures and equipment at our hotels and certain assets from our laundry facilities, as well as amortization of finite lived intangible assets. Corporate general & administrative. These costs include general and administrative expenses, including costs associated with the potential disposition of hotels. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation expense for our corporate staff and personnel supporting our business, professional fees, travel and entertainment expenses, and office administrative and related expenses. Acquisition costs. These costs include expenses associated with our hotel acquisitions. Other. These costs include expenses for our laundry business and costs to provide support services to certain HGV timeshare properties. Factors Affecting our Costs and Expenses Variable expenses . Expenses associated with our room expense and food and beverage expense are mainly affected by occupancy and correlate closely with their respective revenues. These expenses can increase based on increases in salaries and wages, as well as on the level of service and amenities that are provided. Additionally, food and beverage expense is affected by the mix of business between banquet, catering and outlet sales. 44 Fixed expenses . Many of the other expenses associated with our hotels are relatively fixed. These expenses include portions of rent expense, property taxes and insurance. Since we generally are unable to decrease these costs significantly or rapidly when demand for our hotels decreases, any resulting decline in our revenues can have a greater adverse effect on our net cash flow, margins and profits. This effect can be especially pronounced during periods of economic contraction or slow economic growth. The effectiveness of any cost-cutting efforts is limited by the amount of fixed costs inherent in our business. As a result, we may not be able to successfully offset revenue reductions through cost cutting. The individuals employed at certain of our hotels are party to collective bargaining agreements with our hotel managers that may also limit the manager ability to make timely staffing or labor changes in response to declining revenues. In addition, any efforts to reduce costs, or to defer or cancel capital improvements, could adversely affect the economic value of our hotels. We have taken steps to reduce our fixed costs to levels we believe are appropriate to maximize profitability and respond to market conditions without jeopardizing the overall customer experience or the value of our hotels. Changes in depreciation and amortization expense . Changes in depreciation expense are due to renovations of existing hotels, acquisition or development of new hotels, the disposition of existing hotels through sale or closure or changes in estimates of the useful lives of our assets. As we place new assets into service, we will be required to recognize additional depreciation expense on those assets. Key Business Metrics Used by Management Occupancy Occupancy represents the total number of room nights sold divided by the total number of room nights available at a hotel or group of hotels. Occupancy measures the utilization of our hotels available capacity. Management uses occupancy to gauge demand at a specific hotel or group of hotels in a given period. Occupancy levels also help us determine achievable Average Daily Rate ( ADR ) levels as demand for rooms increases or decreases. Average Daily Rate ADR represents rooms revenue divided by total number of room nights sold in a given period. ADR measures average room price attained by a hotel and ADR trends provide useful information concerning the pricing environment and the nature of the customer base of a hotel or group of hotels. ADR is a commonly used performance measure in the hotel industry, and we use ADR to assess pricing levels that we are able to generate by type of customer, as changes in rates have a more pronounced effect on overall revenues and incremental profitability than changes in occupancy, as described above. Revenue per Available Room Revenue per Available Room ( RevPAR ) represents rooms revenue divided by the total number of room nights available to guests for a given period. We consider RevPAR to be a meaningful indicator of our performance as it provides a metric correlated to two primary and key factors of operations at a hotel or group of hotels: occupancy and ADR. RevPAR is also a useful indicator in measuring performance over comparable periods for comparable hotels. References to RevPAR, ADR and occupancy are presented on a comparable basis and references to RevPAR and ADR are presented on a currency neutral basis (prior periods are reflected using current period exchange rates), unless otherwise noted. Comparable Hotels Data We present certain data for our hotels on a comparable hotel basis as supplemental information for investors. We define our comparable hotels as those that: (i) were active and operating in our portfolio since January 1st of the previous year; and (ii) have not sustained substantial property damage or business interruption, have not undergone large-scale capital projects or for which comparable results are not available. We present comparable hotel results to help us and our investors evaluate the ongoing operating performance of our comparable hotels. 2019 Comparable Hotels Of the 55 hotels that we consolidated as of December 31, 2019, 38 hotels have been classified as comparable hotels. Due to the effects of business interruption from Hurricane Maria at the Caribe Hilton in Puerto Rico during the first half of 2019, the results from that property were excluded from our comparable hotels. Our comparable hotels as of December 31, 2019 also excludes 18 hotels acquired through the Merger (two of which were subsequently sold), one hotel returned to the lessor after the expiration of the ground lease in December 2018, one hotel returned to the lessor upon early termination of the ground lease in December 2019, and five consolidated hotels that were sold in 2019. 45 Comparable Hotel Operating Statistics The following table represents the key hotel operating statistics for our comparable hotels for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018. This table includes information from all of the comparable hotels we owned as of December 31, 2019. Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 Comparable RevPAR $ 183.46 $ 179.79 Comparable Occupancy 82.7 % 82.2 % Comparable ADR $ 221.90 $ 219.01 Non-GAAP Financial Measures We also evaluate the performance of our business through certain other financial measures that are not recognized under U.S. GAAP. Each of these non-GAAP financial measures should be considered by investors as supplemental measures to GAAP performance measures such as total revenues, operating profit and net income. EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Hotel Adjusted EBITDA EBITDA, presented herein, reflects net income excluding depreciation and amortization, interest income, interest expense, income taxes and also interest expense, income tax and depreciation and amortization included in equity in earnings from investments in affiliates. Adjusted EBITDA, presented herein, is calculated as EBITDA, further adjusted to exclude: Gains or losses on sales of assets for both consolidated and unconsolidated investments; Gains or losses on foreign currency transactions; Transition expense related to our establishment as an independent, publicly traded company; Costs associated with hotel acquisitions or dispositions expensed during the period; Severance expense; Share-based compensation expense; Casualty gains or losses and impairment losses; and Other items that we believe are not representative of our current or future operating performance. Hotel Adjusted EBITDA measures hotel-level results before debt service, depreciation and corporate expenses for our consolidated hotels, including both comparable and non-comparable hotels but excluding hotels owned by unconsolidated affiliates, and is a key measure of our profitability. We present Hotel Adjusted EBITDA to help us and our investors evaluate the ongoing operating performance of our consolidated hotels. EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Hotel Adjusted EBITDA are not recognized terms under U.S. GAAP and should not be considered as alternatives to net income (loss) or other measures of financial performance or liquidity derived in accordance with U.S. GAAP. In addition, our definitions of EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Hotel Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. We believe that EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Hotel Adjusted EBITDA provide useful information to investors about us and our financial condition and results of operations for the following reasons: (i) EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Hotel Adjusted EBITDA are among the measures used by our management team to make day-to-day operating decisions and evaluate our operating performance between periods and between REITs by removing the effect of our capital structure (primarily interest expense) and asset base (primarily depreciation and amortization) from our operating results; and (ii) EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Hotel Adjusted EBITDA are frequently used by securities analysts, investors and other interested parties as a common performance measure to compare results or estimate valuations across companies in our industry. 46 EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Hotel Adjusted EBITDA have limitations as analytical tools and should not be considered either in isolation or as a substitute for net income (loss) or other methods of analyzing our operating performance and results as reported under U.S. GAAP. Some of these limitations are: EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Hotel Adjusted EBITDA do not reflect our interest expense; EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Hotel Adjusted EBITDA do not reflect our income tax expense; EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Hotel Adjusted EBITDA do not reflect the effect on earnings or changes resulting from matters that we consider not to be indicative of our future operations; and other companies in our industry may calculate EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Hotel Adjusted EBITDA differently, limiting their usefulness as comparative measures. We do not use or present EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Hotel Adjusted EBITDA as measures of our liquidity or cash flow. These measures have limitations as analytical tools and should not be considered either in isolation or as a substitute for cash flow or other methods of analyzing our cash flows and liquidity as reported under U.S. GAAP. Some of these limitations are: EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Hotel Adjusted EBITDA do not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs; EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Hotel Adjusted EBITDA do not reflect the cash requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments, on our indebtedness; EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Hotel Adjusted EBITDA do not reflect the cash requirements to pay our taxes; EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Hotel Adjusted EBITDA do not reflect historical cash expenditures or future requirements for capital expenditures or contractual commitments; and although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized will often have to be replaced in the future, and EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Hotel Adjusted EBITDA do not reflect any cash requirements for such replacements. Because of these limitations, EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Hotel Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered as discretionary cash available to us to reinvest in the growth of our business or as measures of cash that will be available to us to meet our obligations. The following table provides the components of Hotel Adjusted EBITDA: Year Ended December 31, 2019 (1) 2018 (1) (in millions) Comparable Hotel Adjusted EBITDA $ 734 $ 713 Non-comparable Hotel Adjusted EBITDA 68 48 Hotel Adjusted EBITDA $ 802 $ 761 (1) Based on our 2019 comparable hotels as of December 31, 2019. 47 The following table provides a reconciliation of Net income to Hotel Adjusted EBITDA: Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 (in millions) Net income $ 316 $ 477 Depreciation and amortization expense 264 277 Interest income (6 ) (6 ) Interest expense 140 127 Income tax expense 35 23 Interest expense, income tax and depreciation and amortization included in equity in earnings from investments in affiliates 23 26 EBITDA 772 924 Gain on sales of assets, net (19 ) (96 ) Gain on sale of investments in affiliates (1) (44 ) (107 ) Loss on foreign currency transactions 1 3 Transition expense 3 Acquisition costs 70 Severance expense 2 2 Share-based compensation expense 16 16 Casualty (gain) loss and impairment loss, net (18 ) (1 ) Other items 6 10 Adjusted EBITDA 786 754 Less: Adjusted EBITDA from investments in affiliates 37 45 Less: All other (2) (53 ) (52 ) Hotel Adjusted EBITDA $ 802 $ 761 (1) Included in other gain, net. (2) Includes other revenues and other expenses , non-income taxes on TRS leases included in other property-level expenses and corporate general and administrative expenses . Nareit FFO attributable to stockholders and Adjusted FFO attributable to stockholders We present Nareit FFO attributable to stockholders and Nareit FFO per diluted share (defined as set forth below) as non-GAAP measures of our performance. We calculate funds from operations ( FFO ) attributable to stockholders for a given operating period in accordance with standards established by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ( Nareit ), as net income or loss attributable to stockholders (calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP), excluding depreciation and amortization, gains or losses on sales of assets, impairment, and the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles, plus adjustments for unconsolidated joint ventures. Adjustments for unconsolidated joint ventures are calculated to reflect our pro rata share of the FFO of those entities on the same basis. As noted by Nareit in its December 2018 Nareit Funds from Operations White Paper 2018 Restatement, since real estate values historically have risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors have considered presentation of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves. For these reasons, Nareit adopted the FFO metric in order to promote an industry-wide measure of REIT operating performance. We believe Nareit FFO provides useful information to investors regarding our operating performance and can facilitate comparisons of operating performance between periods and between REITs. Our presentation may not be comparable to FFO reported by other REITs that do not define the terms in accordance with the current Nareit definition, or that interpret the current Nareit definition differently than we do. We calculate Nareit FFO per diluted share as our Nareit FFO divided by the number of fully diluted shares outstanding during a given operating period. 48 We also present Adjusted FFO attributable to stockholders and Adjusted FFO per diluted share when evaluating our performance because we believe that the exclusion of certain additional items described below provides useful supplemental information to investors regarding our ongoing operating performance. Management historically has made the adjustments detailed below in evaluating our performance and in our annual budget process. We believe that the presentation of Adjusted FFO provides useful supplemental information that is beneficial to an investor complete understanding of our operating performance. We adjust Nareit FFO attributable to stockholders for the following items, which may occur in any period, and refer to this measure as Adjusted FFO attributable to stockholders: Gains or losses on foreign currency transactions; Transition expense related to our establishment as an independent, publicly traded company; Costs associated with hotel acquisitions or dispositions expensed during the period; Severance expense; Share-based compensation expense; Casualty gains or losses; and Other items that we believe are not representative of our current or future operating performance. The following table provides a reconciliation of net income attributable to stockholders to Nareit FFO attributable to stockholders and Adjusted FFO attributable to stockholders: Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 (in millions) Net income attributable to stockholders $ 306 $ 472 Depreciation and amortization expense 264 277 Depreciation and amortization expense attributable to noncontrolling interests (4 ) (4 ) Gain on sales of assets, net (19 ) (96 ) Gain on sale of investments in affiliates (1) (44 ) (107 ) Equity investment adjustments: Equity in earnings from investments in affiliates (14 ) (18 ) Pro rata FFO of investments in affiliates 31 34 Nareit FFO attributable to stockholders 520 558 Loss on foreign currency transactions 1 3 Casualty gain, net (18 ) (1 ) Transition expense 3 Acquisition costs 70 Severance expense 2 2 Share-based compensation expense 16 16 Other items (2) 22 22 Adjusted FFO attributable to stockholders $ 613 $ 603 Nareit FFO per share - Diluted (3) $ 2.44 $ 2.73 Adjusted FFO per share - Diluted (3) $ 2.88 $ 2.96 (1) Included in other gain, net. (2) For 2019, includes $15 million of income tax expense associated with the sales of hotels in 2019. For 2018, includes $13 million of income tax expense primarily attributable to an additional built-in gain deferred tax liability as a result of the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which prohibits the sale of ancillary hotel furniture, fixtures and equipment to be included in a like-kind exchange. (3) Per share amounts are calculated based on unrounded numbers and are calculated independently for each period presented. 49 Results of Operations The following items have had a significant effect on the year-over-year comparability of our operations and are further discussed in the sections below: Dispositions: During the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, we sold 7 hotels (including two hotels acquired as part of the Merger) and 12 consolidated hotels, respectively. Additionally, we no longer lease the Hilton Sheffield Hotel and the Hilton Chicago O Hare as of December 2019 and 2018, respectively. The results of operations during our period of ownership of these hotels are included within non-comparable revenues and operating expenses. Acquisitions: On September 18, 2019, we acquired 18 hotels through the Merger. We subsequently sold two of the acquired hotels, which are now included as part of our disposed portfolio. The results of operations during our period of ownership of the remaining 16 hotels are included within non-comparable revenues and operating expenses. Hurricane Maria: As a result of Hurricane Maria in September 2017, the Caribe Hilton sustained significant damage and was closed for all of 2018 and reopened on May 15, 2019. The increase in hotel revenues and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 as a result of the closure in 2018 are included within non-comparable revenues and operating expenses. Revenue Rooms Year ended December 31, 2019 (1) 2018 (1) Percent Change (in millions) Comparable rooms revenue $ 1,611 $ 1,580 2.0 % Non-comparable rooms revenue 160 136 17.6 Total rooms revenue $ 1,771 $ 1,716 3.2 % (1) Based on our 2019 comparable hotels as of December 31, 2019. Comparable rooms revenue increased $31 million during the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018 primarily as a result of an increase in comparable hotel RevPAR of 2.0%. The increase in RevPAR during the year ended December 31, 2019 was primarily due to an increase in group and contract revenues of 7.1% and 8.9%, respectively, partially offset by a decrease in transient revenue of 1.2%. The increase in group and contract revenue was primarily a result of an increase in demand and rate. During the year ended December 31, 2019, the overall increase in RevPAR for our comparable hotels was primarily a result of increases at our Hawaii and San Francisco hotels. Our Hawaii hotels experienced an increase in RevPAR of 5.5% during the year ended December 31, 2019, primarily due to an increase in both group and transient business at the Hilton Waikoloa Village which previously experienced disruption caused by the 2018 volcanic activity on the Big Island beginning in May of 2018 as well as an increase in group business at the Hilton Hawaiian Village Waikiki Beach Resort. San Francisco benefited primarily from a combined 24.4% increase in group revenue at the Hilton San Francisco Union Square and Parc 55 San Francisco. Additionally, RevPAR at our Hilton Santa Barbara Beachfront Resort during the year ended December 31, 2019 increased 19.5% from an increase in transient business following the renovation and repositioning of the hotel completed in April 2018. The overall increase in RevPAR for our comparable hotels was partially offset by declines in RevPAR at our New York and Chicago hotels. The decline in RevPAR in New York was primarily attributable to a decrease in transient business at the New York Hilton Midtown. The decline in RevPAR at our Chicago hotels was primarily attributable to decreases in transient rate as well as group business at the Hilton Chicago resulting from fewer citywide room nights. Additionally, renovation displacement at The Reach, A Waldorf Astoria Resort, which underwent a conversion to a Curio branded hotel, resulted in a RevPAR decline of 26.6%. Non-comparable rooms revenue increased $24 million during the year ended December 31, 2019 , primarily as a result of an increase of $105 million contributed by the hotels acquired through the Merger coupled with an increase of $15 million from the re-opening of the Caribe Hilton, partially offset by a decrease of $96 million as a result of our property dispositions. 50 Food and beverage Year ended December 31, 2019 (1) 2018 (1) Percent Change (in millions) Comparable food and beverage revenue $ 692 $ 659 5.0 % Non-comparable food and beverage revenue 51 54 (5.6 ) Total food and beverage revenue $ 743 $ 713 4.2 % (1) Based on our 2019 comparable hotels as of December 31, 2019. Comparable food and beverage revenue increased $33 million during the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to the same periods in 2018 primarily as a result of an increase in banquet and catering revenue. Ancillary hotel Year ended December 31, 2019 (1) 2018 (1) Percent Change (in millions) Comparable ancillary hotel revenue $ 212 $ 196 8.2 % Non-comparable ancillary hotel revenue 41 40 2.5 Total ancillary hotel revenue $ 253 $ 236 7.2 % (1) Based on our 2019 comparable hotels as of December 31, 2019. Ancillary hotel revenue at our comparable hotels increased $16 million during the year ended December 31, 2019 , compared to the same period in 2018 as a result of an increase in resort and parking fees. Other Year ended December 31, 2019 2018 Percent Change (in millions) Laundry revenue $ 11 $ 14 (21.4 )% Support service revenue 66 58 13.8 Total other revenue $ 77 $ 72 6.9 % Laundry revenue decreased during the year ended December 31, 2019 primarily due to the termination of unprofitable contracts with certain hotels. Support service revenue increased during the year ended December 31, 2019 primarily due to an increase in reimbursable costs from the services agreements with HGV at the Hilton Hawaiian Village Waikiki Beach Resort. Operating Expenses Rooms Year ended December 31, 2019 (1) 2018 (1) Percent Change (in millions) Comparable rooms expense $ 425 $ 412 3.2 % Non-comparable rooms expense 42 37 13.5 Total rooms expense $ 467 $ 449 4.0 % (1) Based on our 2019 comparable hotels as of December 31, 2019 . 51 Rooms expense at our comparable hotels increased $ 13 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 , compared to the same period in 2018 primarily due to an increase in occupancy coupled with increased labor costs. Non-comparable rooms expense increased $ 5 million during the year ended December 31, 2019 , compared to the same period in 2018 as a result of the re-opening of the Caribe Hilton. Expenses recognized by hotels acquired through the Merger were offset by a reduction of expenses from hotels disposed of during 2019. Food and beverage Year ended December 31, 2019 (1) 2018 (1) Percent Change (in millions) Comparable food and beverage expense $ 479 $ 458 4.6 % Non-comparable food and beverage expense 39 37 5.4 Total food and beverage expense $ 518 $ 495 4.6 % (1) Based on our 2019 comparable hotels as of December 31, 2019 . Food and beverage expense at our comparable hotels increased $21 million during the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 primarily as a result of increases in banquet and catering expenses associated with the increase in associated revenues. Other departmental and support Year ended December 31, 2019 (1) 2018 (1) Percent Change (in millions) Comparable other departmental and support expense $ 566 $ 554 2.2 % Non-comparable other departmental and support expense 72 73 (1.4 ) Total other departmental and support expense $ 638 $ 627 1.8 % (1) Based on our 2019 comparable hotels as of December 31, 2019 . Other departmental and support expense at our comparable hotels increased $12 million during the year ended December 31, 2019 , compared to the same period in 2018 as a result of increases in administrative and general and sales and marketing expenses primarily as a result of an increase in business and labor costs. Other property-level Year ended December 31, 2019 (1) 2018 (1) Percent Change (in millions) Comparable other property-level expense $ 196 $ 182 7.7 % Non-comparable other property-level expense 23 25 (8.0 ) Total other property-level expense $ 219 $ 207 5.8 % (1) Based on our 2019 comparable hotels as of December 31, 2019 . Other property-level expenses at our comparable hotels increased $14 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 , compared to the same period in 2018 as a result of increases in property insurance and property tax expense. 52 Management fees Year ended December 31, 2019 (1) 2018 (1) Percent Change (in millions) Comparable management fees expense $ 129 $ 126 2.4 % Non-comparable management fees expense 10 11 (9.1 ) Total management fees expense $ 139 $ 137 1.5 % (1) Based on our 2019 comparable hotels as of December 31, 2019 . Management fees at our comparable hotels increased $3 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018 due to an increase in the revenues and profitability metrics that the base and incentive fees are calculated upon. Casualty gain (loss) and impairment loss, net During the year ended December 31, 2019, w e recognized a net gain of $18 million within casualty (gain) loss and impairment loss, net in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income, which includes a gain of $27 million for amounts recovered from insurance in excess of the insurance receivable and a loss of $9 million relating to property damage at certain of our hotels that we may not recover from insurers. Corporate general and administrative Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 Percent Change (in millions) General and administrative expenses $ 43 $ 43 % Share-based compensation expense 16 16 Transition expense 3 (100.0 ) Disposition costs 2 2 Severance expense 1 1 Total corporate general and administrative $ 62 $ 65 (4.6 )% Acquisition costs Acquisition costs of $70 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 , relate to costs incurred in connection with the Merger. Other Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 Percent Change (in millions) Laundry expense $ 16 $ 18 (11.1 )% Support services expense 62 55 12.7 Total other $ 78 $ 73 6.8 % Laundry expense decreased during the year ended December 31, 2019 primarily due to a reduction in costs following the termination of unprofitable contracts with certain hotels. Support service expense increased during the year ended December 31, 2019 primarily due to an increase in costs incurred for the services agreements with HGV at the Hilton Hawaiian Village Waikiki Beach Resort. Gain on sales of assets, net During the year ended December 31, 2019 , we recognized a net gain of $19 million as a result of the sale of seven of our consolidated hotels. Refer to Note 3: Acquisitions, Dispositions and Assets Held for Sale in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere within this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. 53 During the year ended December 31, 2018 , we recognized a net gain of $96 million, including the reclassification of a currency translation adjustment of $31 million from accumulated other comprehensive loss to earnings, as a result of the sale of 12 of our consolidated hotels. Additionally, we recognized a $2 million loss as a result of the sale of furniture and equipment to the ground lessor at the Hilton Chicago O Hare Airport, in connection with the termination of the ground lease. Non-operating Income and Expenses Interest expense Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 Percent Change (in millions) SF and HHV CMBS Loans (1) $ 85 $ 85 % Mortgage Loans 13 9 44.4 % 2016 Term Loan 29 26 11.5 % 2019 Term Facility (2) 8 100.0 % Other 5 7 (28.6 )% Total interest expense $ 140 $ 127 10.2 % (1) In October 2016, we entered into a $725 million CMBS loan secured by the Hilton San Francisco Union Square and the Parc 55 Hotel San Francisco ( SF CMBS Loan ) and a $1.275 billion CMBS loan secured by the Hilton Hawaiian Village Waikiki Beach Resort ( HHV CMBS Loan ). (2) In August 2019, the Company, our Operating Company and PK Domestic entered into a credit agreement with Bank of America, N.A. and certain other lenders, providing a $950 million unsecured delayed draw term loan facility (the 2019 Term Facility ), with the $850 million, five-year delayed draw term loan tranche fully drawn on September 18, 2019 to fund the Merger. The $100 million, two-year delayed draw term loan tranche was unfunded and the commitments thereunder terminated on September 18, 2019. On December 31, 2019, we prepaid $180 million of the 2019 Term Facility. Interest expense increased as a result of $310 million in mortgage loans assumed in connection with the Merger and borrowings under the 2019 Term Facility to fund the Merger. Our current debt outstanding is approximately $3.9 billion at a weighted average interest rate of 3.9%, of which approximately 64% is fixed-rate debt, refer to Item 7A: Interest Rate Risk in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere within this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. Equity in earnings from investments in affiliates The decrease in 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 was primarily due to an impairment loss of $5 million recognized in 2019 related to one of our investments in affiliates. Other gain, net During the year ended December 31, 2019, we recognized a net gain of $46 million, which is primarily due to the sale of our ownership interest in the Conrad Dublin. Refer to Note 3: Acquisitions, Dispositions and Assets Held for Sale for additional information. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we recognized a net gain of $102 million, which is primarily due to the sale of our interests in the unconsolidated affiliates that owned the Hilton Berlin. Refer to Note 3: Acquisitions, Dispositions and Assets Held for Sale for additional information. in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere within this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. Income tax expense Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 Percent Change (in millions) Income tax expense $ 35 $ 23 52.2 % 54 Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2019 includes $15 million of income tax expense associated with the sales of hotels in 2019 and $9 million of income tax primarily associated with our taxable REIT subsidiaries. Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2018 includes $10 million of income tax primarily associated with our taxable REIT subsidiaries, $6 million of built-in gain tax recognized on the sales of hotels in 2018, and $10 million of deferred income tax expense from an additional built-in gain deferred tax liability resulting from the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which prohibits the sale of ancillary hotel furniture, fixtures and equipment to be included in a like-kind exchange. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview Our sources of liquidity include cash flows from operations, cash and cash equivalents, borrowings under our revolving credit facility ( Revolver ) and issuing securities. As of December 31, 2019, we had total cash and cash equivalents of $346 million and $40 million of restricted cash. Restricted cash primarily consists of cash restricted as to use by our debt agreements and reserves for capital expenditures in accordance with certain of our management agreements. In addition, we had $1 billion of available capacity remaining under our Revolver and the ability to raise capital through the issuance of securities under our shelf-registration statement on Form S-3. Our known short-term liquidity requirements primarily consist of funds necessary to pay for operating expenses and other expenditures, including reimbursements to our hotel manager for payroll and related benefits, costs associated with the operation of our hotels, interest and scheduled principal payments on our outstanding indebtedness, capital expenditures for renovations and maintenance at our hotels, and dividends to our stockholders. Our long-term liquidity requirements primarily consist of funds necessary to pay for scheduled debt maturities, capital improvements at our hotels, and costs associated with potential acquisitions. Our commitments to fund capital expenditures for renovations and maintenance at our hotels will be funded by cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash to the extent permitted by our lending agreements and cash flow from operations. We have established reserves for capital expenditures ( FF&E reserve ) in accordance with our management and certain debt agreements. Generally, these agreements require that we fund 4% of hotel revenues into an FF&E reserve, unless such amounts have been incurred. We finance our business activities primarily with existing cash and cash generated from our operations, and if necessary, short-term borrowing under our Revolver, or proceeds from public offerings of other securities. We believe that this cash will be adequate to meet anticipated requirements for operating expenses and capital expenditures for the foreseeable future. Our cash management objectives are to maintain the availability of liquidity, minimize operational costs, make debt payments and fund our capital expenditure programs and future acquisitions. Further, we have an investment policy that is focused on the preservation of capital and maximizing the return on new and existing investments. Merger with Chesapeake On September 18, 2019, the Merger was completed pursuant to the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, and Chesapeake merged with and into Merger Sub. Each of Chesapeake common shares of beneficial interest, $0.01 par value per share, was converted into $11.00 in cash and 0.628 of a share of our common stock. No fractional shares of common stock were issued in the Merger. The value of any fractional interests to which a Chesapeake shareholder would otherwise have been entitled was paid in cash. In August 2019, we entered into the 2019 Term Facility, which provided a $950 million Term Facility, with the $850 million, five-year delayed draw term loan tranche under the 2019 Term Facility fully drawn on September 18, 2019 to fund the Merger. The $100 million, two-year delayed draw term loan tranche under the 2019 Term Facility was not funded and the commitments thereunder terminated on September 18, 2019. In December 2019, we prepaid $180 million of the 2019 Term Facility. Refer to Note 1: Organization and Note 7: Debt in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. We anticipate an increase in cash outflows as a result of the increased dividend payment requirements with respect to the 37.8 million shares of our common stock issued to Chesapeake common shareholders on September 18, 2019 as part of the consideration for the Merger. We expect to fund the dividends from increased cash flows generated from the hotels acquired in the Merger. 55 Stock Repurchase Program In February 2019, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program allowing us to repurchase up to $300 million of our common stock over a two-year period, ending in February 2021. Stock repurchases, if any, would be made through open market purchases, including through Rule 10b5-1 trading programs, in privately negotiated transactions, or in such other manner that would comply with applicable securities laws. The timing of stock repurchases and the number of shares to be repurchased will depend upon prevailing market conditions and other factors. No stock repurchases have been made to date using this program. Sources and Uses of Our Cash and Cash Equivalents The following tables summarize our net cash flows and key metrics related to our liquidity: Year Ended December 31, Percent Change 2019 2018 2019 vs. 2018 (in millions) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 499 $ 444 12.4 % Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities (635 ) 419 NM (1) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 97 (816 ) NM (1) (4) Percentage change is not meaningful. Operating Activities Cash flow from operating activities are primarily generated from the operating income generated at our hotels. The $55 million increase in net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 was primarily due to a $48 million decrease in cash paid for income taxes. Investing Activities The $635 million in net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2019 was primarily attributable to the $914 million used in the acquisition of Chesapeake and $240 million used for capital expenditures for property and equipment at our hotels, partially offset by $480 million in net proceeds received from the sale of hotels. The $419 million in net cash provided by investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2018 was primarily attributable to the $519 million in net proceeds received from the sale of hotels and $88 million of insurance proceeds received for property damage claims, partially offset by $178 million used for capital expenditures for property and equipment at our hotels. Financing Activities The $97 million in net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2019 is primarily attributable to borrowings of $850 million from the 2019 Term Facility entered into in September 2019 to fund the Merger, partially offset by the repayment of $232 million of outstanding debt and $494 million in dividends paid. The $816 million in net cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2018 is primarily attributable to the repurchase of 14,000,000 shares of our common stock for $348 million, coupled with $464 million in dividends paid. Dividends As a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain, to our stockholders on an annual basis. Therefore, as a general matter, it is unlikely that we will be able to retain substantial cash balances that could be used to meet our liquidity needs from our annual taxable income. Instead, we will need to meet these needs from external sources of capital and amounts, if any, by which our cash flow generated from operations exceeds taxable income. 56 We declared the following dividends to holders of our common stock during 2019: Record Date Payment Date Dividend per Share March 29, 2019 April 15, 2019 $ 0.45 June 28, 2019 July 15, 2019 $ 0.45 September 30, 2019 October 15, 2019 $ 0.45 December 31, 2019 January 15, 2020 $ 0.55 Debt As of December 31, 2019, our total indebtedness was approximately $3.9 billion, including approximately $310 million assumed in the Merger, and excluding approximately $225 million of our share of debt of investments in affiliates. Substantially all the debt of such unconsolidated affiliates is secured solely by the affiliates assets or is guaranteed by other partners without recourse to us. Refer to Note 7: Debt in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere within this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations as of December 31, 2019: Payments Due by Period Total Less Than 1 Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years More Than 5 Years (in millions) Debt (1)(2) $ 4,638 $ 173 $ 1,082 $ 1,703 $ 1,680 Operating leases (3) 501 29 58 49 365 Total contractual obligations $ 5,139 $ 202 $ 1,140 $ 1,752 $ 2,045 (1) Assumes the exercise of all extensions that are exercisable solely at our option. (2) Includes principal, as well as estimated interest payments. For our variable-rate debt, we have assumed a constant 30-day LIBOR rate of 1.76% as of December 31, 2019. (3) Only includes our future minimum lease payments, refer to Note 9: Leases in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere within this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Our off-balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2019 included construction contract commitments of approximately $43 million for capital expenditures at our properties. Our contracts contain clauses that allow us to cancel all or some portion of the work. If cancellation of a contract occurred, our commitment would be any costs incurred up to the cancellation date, in addition to any costs associated with the discharge of the contract. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of our financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of our financial statements, the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods and the related disclosures in our historical consolidated financial statements and accompanying footnotes. We believe that of our significant accounting policies, which are described in Note 2: Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere within this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following accounting policies are critical because they involve a higher degree of judgment, and the estimates required to be made were based on assumptions that are inherently uncertain. As a result, these accounting policies could materially affect our financial position, results of operations and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate these estimates and judgments based on historical experiences and various other factors that are believed to reflect the current circumstances. While we believe our estimates, assumptions and judgments are reasonable, they are based on information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates due to changes in judgments, assumptions and conditions as a result of unforeseen events or otherwise, which could have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. 57 Acquisitions We evaluate each of our acquisitions to determine if it is as an asset acquisition or a business combination. An asset acquisition occurs when substantially all the fair value of an acquisition is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets. In an acquisition of assets, the total cash consideration, including transaction costs is allocated to the individual assets acquired and liabilities assumed, respectively, on a relative fair value basis. In a business combination, the assets acquired and liabilities assumed are measured at fair value. We evaluate several factors, including market data for similar assets, expected future cash flows discounted at risk-adjusted rates and replacement cost for the assets to determine an appropriate fair value of the assets. Changes to these factors could affect the measurement of assets and liabilities. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets with Finite Lives We evaluate the carrying value of our property and equipment and intangible assets with finite lives by comparing the expected undiscounted future cash flows to the net book value of the assets if we determine there are indicators of potential impairment. If it is determined that the expected undiscounted future cash flows are less than the net book value of the assets, the excess of the net book value over the estimated fair value is recorded in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income as an impairment loss. As part of the process described above, we exercise judgment to: determine if there are indicators of impairment present. Factors we consider when making this determination include assessing the overall effect of trends in the hospitality industry and the general economy, historical experience, capital costs and other asset-specific information; determine the projected undiscounted future cash flows when indicators of impairment are present. Judgment is required when developing projections of future revenues and expenses based on estimated growth rates over the expected useful life of the asset group. These estimated growth rates are based on historical operating results, as well as various internal projections and external sources; and determine the asset fair value when required. In determining the fair value, we often use internally-developed discounted cash flow models. Assumptions used in the discounted cash flow models include estimating cash flows, which may require us to adjust for specific market conditions, as well as capitalization rates, which are based on location, property or asset type, market-specific dynamics and overall economic performance. The discount rate takes into account our weighted average cost of capital according to our capital structure and other market specific considerations. Changes in estimates and assumptions used in our impairment testing of property and equipment and intangible assets with finite lives could result in future impairment losses, which could be material. We did not identify any additional property and equipment or intangible assets with finite lives with indicators of impairment for which an additional 10% change in our estimates of undiscounted future cash flows or other significant assumptions would result in material impairment losses. Investments in Affiliates We evaluate our investments in affiliates for impairment when there are indicators that the fair value of our investment may be less than our carrying value. We record an impairment loss when we determine there has been an other-than-temporary decline in the investment fair value. If an identified event or change in circumstances requires an evaluation to determine if the value of an investment may have an other-than-temporary decline, we assess the fair value of the investment based on the accepted valuation methods, which include discounted cash flows, estimates of sales proceeds and external appraisals. If an investment fair value is below its carrying value and the decline is considered to be other-than-temporary, we will recognize an impairment loss in equity in earnings (losses) from investments in affiliates for equity method investments in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Our investments in affiliates consist primarily of our interests in entities that own or lease properties. As such, the factors we consider when determining if there are indicators of potential impairment are similar to property and equipment discussed above. If there are indicators of potential impairment, we estimate the fair value of our equity method and cost method investments by internally developed discounted cash flow models. The principal factors used in our discounted cash flow models that require judgment are the same as the items discussed in property and equipment above. Changes in estimates and assumptions used in our impairment testing of investments in affiliates could result in future impairment losses, which could be material. 58 During the year ended December 31, 2019, we recognized an impairment loss of $5 million related to our investments in affiliates. A 10% change in our estimate of fair value of these investments in affiliates that were impaired during 2019 would have resulted in less than $1 million of additional impairment loss. Further, we did not identify any additional investments in affiliates with indicators of impairment for which a 10% change in our estimates of future cash flows or other significant assumptions would result in material impairment losses. Goodwill We have two reporting units, consolidated and unconsolidated hotels, to which goodwill has been allocated. Certain of the entities that are included in our consolidated financial statements were consolidated subsidiaries of Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc. ( Parent ) at the time of its predecessor merger with an affiliate of The Blackstone Group L.P. ( Blackstone Merger ) . Our Parent allocated goodwill to us based on the relative fair value of our properties compared to that of Parent ownership segment as of the date of the Blackstone Merger. We review the carrying value of our goodwill by comparing the carrying values of our reportable units to their fair values. Our reporting units are the same as our operating segments as described in Note 15: Geographic and Business Segment Information . We perform this evaluation annually or at an interim date if indicators of impairment exist. In any given year we may elect to perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value. If we cannot determine qualitatively that the fair value is in excess of the carrying value, or we decide to bypass the qualitative assessment, we proceed to the two-step quantitative process. In the first step, we evaluate the fair value of our reporting unit quantitatively. When determining fair value, we utilize discounted future cash flow models, as well as market conditions relative to the operations of our reporting unit. When using a discounted cash flow approach, we utilize various assumptions that require judgment, including projections of revenues and expenses based on estimated long-term growth rates, terminal value and discount rates based on weighted average cost of capital. Our estimates of long-term growth and costs are based on historical data, as well as various internal projections and external sources. The weighted average cost of capital is estimated based on the reporting units cost of debt and equity and a selected capital structure. The selected capital structure for the reporting unit is based on consideration of capital structures of comparable publicly traded REITs. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, then the second step must be performed. In the second step, we estimate the implied fair value of goodwill, which is determined by taking the fair value of the reporting unit and allocating it to all of its assets and liabilities, including any unrecognized intangible assets, as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination. Changes in the estimates and assumptions used in our goodwill impairment testing could result in future impairment losses, which could be material. The amount of goodwill allocated to our consolidated hotel reporting unit was $561 million. The fair value of our consolidated hotel reporting unit exceeded the carrying value by 8%. Income Taxes We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities using currently enacted tax rates. In relation to our deferred tax liabilities, to the extent we dispose of hotels we owned as of the date of spin-off within a five-year period in a taxable sale, we would be subject to income tax on any gain on sale, to the extent the gain existed as of the date of the spin-off ( built-in-gain ). Each period we are required to assess our intent and ability to hold or dispose of hotels that had built-in-gains as of the spin-off, as well as the fair value of those hotels relative to the fair value at the spin-off. Changes in these assumptions could result in an increase or decrease in our deferred tax liabilities associated with built-in-gains. We use a prescribed more-likely-than-not recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return if there is uncertainty in income taxes recognized in the financial statements. Assumptions and estimates are used to determine the more-likely-than-not designation. Changes to these assumptions and estimates can lead to an additional income tax expense (benefit), which can materially change our consolidated financial statements. Consolidations We use judgment when evaluating whether we have a controlling financial interest in an entity, including the assessment of the importance of rights and privileges of the partners based on voting rights, as well as financial interests in an entity that are not controllable through voting interests. If the entity is considered to be a variable interest entity ( VIE ), we use judgment determining whether we are the primary beneficiary, and then consolidate those VIEs for which we have determined we are the primary beneficiary. If the entity in which we hold an interest does not meet the definition of a VIE, we evaluate whether we have a controlling financial interest through our voting interest in the entity. Changes to judgments used in evaluating our partnerships and other investments could materially affect our consolidated financial statements. 59 
