CIK: 1690820
Company Name: CARVANA CO 
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2025-02-19
Accession Number: 0001690820-25-000074


ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with Part I, including matters set forth in the "Risk Factors" section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our financial statements and notes thereto included in Part II, Item 8 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," of this Form 10-K. Except when stated otherwise, we present the discussion in Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations on a consolidated basis. Overview Carvana is the leading e-commerce platform for buying and selling used cars. We are transforming the used car buying and selling experience by giving consumers what they want - a wide selection, great value and quality, transparent pricing, and a simple, no pressure transaction. Each element of our business, from inventory procurement to fulfillment and overall ease of the online transaction, has been built for this singular purpose. See Part I, Item 1 - "Business" for a detailed description and discussion of the Company's business. Refer to " Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations " in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023 filed with the SEC on February 22, 2024 for discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022. Retail Vehicle Unit Sales Since launching to customers in Atlanta, Georgia in January 2013, we have historically experienced rapid growth in sales through our website www.carvana.com. During the year ended December 31, 2024, the number of vehicles we sold to retail customers increased by 33.1% to 416,348, compared to 312,847 in the year ended December 31, 2023. We continue to view the number of vehicles we sell to retail customers as the most important long-term measure of our performance, and we expect to continue to focus on building a scalable platform to efficiently increase our retail units sold. This focus on retail units sold is motivated by several factors: Retail units sold enable multiple revenue streams, including the sale of the vehicle itself, the sale of finance receivables originated to finance the vehicle, complementary products, and the sale of vehicles acquired from customers. Retail units sold are the primary driver of customer referrals and repeat sales. Each time we sell a vehicle to a new customer, that customer may refer future customers and can become a repeat buyer in the future. Retail units sold are an important driver of the average number of days between when we acquire the vehicle and when we sell it. Reducing average days to sale impacts gross profit on our vehicles because used vehicles generally depreciate over time. Retail units sold allow us to benefit from economies of scale due to our centralized online sales model. We believe our model provides meaningful operating leverage in acquisition, reconditioning, transport, customer service, and delivery. We are simultaneously maintaining our focus on efficiency gains and other profitability initiatives, while continuing to invest in technology and infrastructure to support efficient growth in retail units sold. This includes continued investment in our vehicle acquisition, reconditioning and logistics network, as well as continued investment in product development and engineering to deliver customers a best-in-class experience. Revenue and Gross Profit We generate revenue on retail units sold from four primary sources: the sale of the retail vehicles, wholesale sales of vehicles we acquire from customers, including sales through our wholesale marketplace, gains on the sales of loans originated to finance the vehicles, and sales of complementary products. Our largest source of revenue, retail vehicle sales, totaled $9.7 billion and $7.5 billion during the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. We generally expect retail vehicle sales to trend proportionately with retail units sold, absent any material changes in macroeconomic conditions. We generate a majority of gross profit on retail vehicle sales from the difference between the retail selling price of the vehicle and our cost of sales associated with acquiring the vehicle and preparing it for sale. Retail vehicle sales also include shipping and delivery fees and service revenue from retail marketplace 35 transactions, which are retail marketplace partner vehicles sold to customers through Carvana that receive net revenue treatment due to the timing of payments with our partners. Wholesale sales and revenues includes sales of trade-ins and other vehicles acquired from customers that do not meet the requirements for our retail inventory. We also include revenue earned from the sale of wholesale marketplace units by non-Carvana sellers through our wholesale marketplace platform, including auction fees and related service revenues, in wholesale sales and revenues. Wholesale sales and revenues totaled $2.8 billion and $2.5 billion during the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. We generally expect wholesale sales to trend proportionately with retail units sold through trade-ins and from customers who wish to sell us a car independent of a retail sale and with the movement of wholesale marketplace units. We generate gross profit on wholesale vehicle sales from the difference between the wholesale selling price of the vehicle and our cost of sales associated with acquiring the vehicle and preparing it for sale. We generate a gross profit on wholesale marketplace units from the difference between the revenue earned from the sale of wholesale marketplace units through our wholesale marketplace platform less our cost of sales associated with operating the wholesale marketplace platform. Other sales and revenues, which primarily includes gains on the sales of finance receivables we originate and sales commissions on complementary products such as VSCs, GAP waiver coverage, and auto insurance, totaled $1.2 billion and $753 million during the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. We generally expect other sales and revenues to trend proportionately with retail units sold. We also expect other sales and revenues to increase as we improve our ability to monetize loans we originate, including through securitization transactions, and sell and offer attractive financing solutions and complementary products to our customers, including products customarily sold by automotive retailers or insurance products customarily sold by traditional insurance companies, absent any material changes in macroeconomic conditions. Other sales and revenues are 100% gross margin products for which gross profit equals revenue. Our highest priority continues to be providing exceptional customer experiences while improving efficiency and utilizing our infrastructure to support efficient growth in retail units sold to help us move along the path to achieve sustained profitability. Strategies to support efficient growth initiatives, which we may undertake from time to time include the following: Increase the purchase of vehicles from customers. Over time, we plan to grow the number of vehicles that we purchase from our customers as trade-ins or independent of a retail sale. This will provide additional vehicles for our retail business, which on average are more profitable compared to the same vehicle acquired at auction, and expand our inventory selection. In addition, this in turn will grow our wholesale business. Optimize average days to sale. Our goal is generally to optimize our inventory size relative to sales to achieve our desired average days to sale. Reductions in average days to sale lead to fewer vehicle price reductions, and therefore higher average selling prices, all other factors being equal. Higher average selling prices in turn lead to higher gross profit per unit sold, all other factors being equal. Leverage existing inspection and reconditioning infrastructure. As we scale, we intend to more fully utilize the capacity at our existing IRCs and auction locations, which collectively have capacity to inspect and recondition more than 1 million vehicles per year at full utilization. Expand our logistics network. As we scale, we intend to further expand our in-house logistics network to transport cars to our IRCs or other sites after acquisition from customers or wholesale auctions. Increase conversion on existing products. We plan to continue to improve our website to highlight the benefits of our complementary product offerings, including financing, complementary products, and trade-ins. Add new products and services. We plan to utilize our online sales platform to offer additional complementary products and services to our customers. Increase monetization of our finance receivables. We plan to continue selling finance receivables in securitization transactions and otherwise expand our base of financial partners who purchase the finance receivables originated on our platform to reduce our effective cost of funds. Optimize purchasing and pricing. We are constantly improving the ways in which we predict customer demand, value vehicles sight unseen and optimize what we pay to acquire those vehicles. We also regularly test different pricing of our products, including vehicle sticker prices, trade-in and independent vehicle offers, and complementary product prices, and we believe we can improve by further optimizing prices over time. 36 Seasonality We expect to experience seasonal and other fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, including as a result of macroeconomic conditions, which may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business. Retail and wholesale used vehicle sales generally exhibit seasonality with sales peaking late in the first calendar quarter and diminishing through the rest of the year, with the lowest relative level of vehicle sales expected to occur in the fourth calendar quarter. Due to our historical and current rapid growth, our overall sales patterns in the past have not always reflected the general seasonality of the used vehicle industry. However, as our business continues to mature, our results may become more reflective of typical market seasonality. Used vehicle prices also exhibit seasonality, with used vehicles generally depreciating at a faster rate in the fourth and first quarters of each year and a slower rate in the second and third quarters of each year, all other factors being equal. Investment in Growth For the past several years, we have been and continue to be focused on driving fundamental gains in gross profit per unit and operational efficiency, flexibility, and scalability through process and technology improvements to increase profitability and provide a strong foundation for profitable growth. As we continue targeting initiatives aimed at improving efficiencies, we are simultaneously investing in the profitable expansion of our business. While we intend to become increasingly efficient over time, we also anticipate that our operating expenses will increase as we grow retail units sold, wholesale units sold, and wholesale marketplace units transacted. There is no guarantee that we will be able to realize the desired return on our investments. Relationships with Related Parties For discussion about our relationships with related parties, refer to Note 7 Related Party Transactions of our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our Proxy Statement for our 2025 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be filed with the SEC within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024. Key Operating Metrics We regularly review a number of metrics, including the following key metrics, to evaluate our business, measure our progress and make strategic decisions. Our key operating metrics reflect the key drivers of our growth, including increasing brand awareness, enhancing the selection of vehicles we make available to our customers, and serving more of the U.S. population. Our key operating metrics also demonstrate our ability to translate these drivers into retail sales and to monetize these retail sales through a variety of product offerings. Years Ended December 31, 2024 2023 Retail units sold 416,348 312,847 Average monthly unique visitors (in thousands) 17,248 15,819 Total website units 53,360 33,075 Total gross profit per unit $ 6,908 $ 5,511 Total gross profit per unit, non-GAAP $ 7,196 $ 5,984 Retail Units Sold We define retail units sold as the number of vehicles sold to customers in a given period, including retail marketplace partner vehicles, net of returns under our seven-day return policy. We view retail units sold as a key measure of our growth for several reasons. First, retail units sold is the primary driver of our revenues and, indirectly, gross profit, since retail unit sales enable multiple complementary revenue streams, including financing, complementary products, and trade-ins. Second, growth in retail units sold increases the base of available customers for referrals and repeat sales. Third, growth in retail units sold is an indicator of our ability to successfully scale our logistics, fulfillment, and customer service operations. 37 Average Monthly Unique Visitors We define a monthly unique visitor as an individual who has visited our website or iOS/Android application within a calendar month, based on data provided by Google Analytics. We calculate average monthly unique visitors as the sum of monthly unique visitors in a given period, divided by the number of months in that period. We view average monthly unique visitors as a key indicator of the strength of our brand, the effectiveness of our advertising and merchandising campaigns, and consumer awareness of our brand. During 2024, the methodology used by Google Analytics to count unique visitors changed to include individuals visiting our iOS/Android application, in addition to those visiting our website. We believe this change allows us to more accurately calculate and reflect average monthly unique visitors. To conform to current period presentation, we have recast average monthly unique visitors for the year ended December 31, 2023. The change in measurement methodology resulted in 8.5% more average monthly unique visitors for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to previously reported numbers. Total Website Units We define total website units as the number of vehicles listed on our website on the last day of a given reporting period, including vehicles available for sale, vehicles currently engaged in a purchase or reserved by a customer, and vehicles that can be reserved that generally have not yet completed the inspection and reconditioning process. We view total website units as a key measure of our growth. Growth in total website units increases the selection of vehicles available to our consumers, which we believe will allow us to increase the number of vehicles we sell over time. Moreover, growth in total website units indicates our ability to scale our vehicle purchasing, inspection and reconditioning operations. As part of our inventory strategy, over time we may choose not to expand total website units while continuing to grow sales, thereby improving other key operating metrics of the business. Total Gross Profit per Unit We define total gross profit per unit as the aggregate gross profit in a given period, divided by retail units sold in that period, including gross profit generated from the sale of retail vehicles, gains on the sales of loans originated to finance the vehicles, commissions on sales of VSCs, GAP waiver coverage, and other complementary products, and gross profit generated from wholesale sales of vehicles. We operate an integrated business with the objective of increasing the number of retail units sold and total gross profit per unit. Gross profits generated from the sale of retail and wholesale units are interrelated. For example, our nationwide reconditioning and inspection centers are designed to produce vehicles for both retail and wholesale sales, our vehicle storage locations have shared parking for both retail and wholesale vehicles, and our integrated multi-vehicle logistics and last mile delivery network is operated in service of both retail and wholesale sales. Such interrelationships require us to share finite operational capacity and optimize joint decisions between retail and wholesale sales, in order to position us to achieve our objective of increasing total gross profit per unit. As a result, the inclusion of gross profit generated from wholesale sales of vehicles in total gross profit per unit reflects our integrated business model and the interrelationship between wholesale and retail vehicle sales. We believe the total gross profit per unit metrics provide investors with the greatest opportunity to view our performance through the same lens that our management does, and therefore assists investors to best evaluate our business and measure our progress. Total Gross Profit per Unit, Non-GAAP We define total gross profit per unit, non-GAAP as the aggregate gross profit, non-GAAP in a given period, divided by retail units sold in that period. Gross profit, non-GAAP is defined as gross profit plus depreciation and amortization expense in cost of sales, share-based compensation expense in cost of sales, and restructuring expense, minus revenue related to warrants to purchase shares of Root's Class A common stock (the "Root Warrants") as discussed in Note 18 Fair Value of Financial Instruments. Refer to "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" for more information, including the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP"). Components of Results of Operations Retail Vehicle Sales Retail vehicle sales represent the aggregate sales of used vehicles to customers through our website. Revenue from retail vehicle sales is recognized upon delivery to the customer or pick up of the vehicle by the customer, and is reported net of a 38 reserve for expected returns. Factors affecting retail vehicle sales revenue include the number of retail units sold and the average selling price of these vehicles. Changes in retail units sold are a much larger driver of changes in revenue than are changes in average selling price. Retail vehicle sales also include shipping and delivery fees and service revenue from retail marketplace transactions, which are retail marketplace partner vehicles sold to customers through Carvana, where we recognize revenue on the sale of the vehicle on a net basis, rather than recognizing the full amount of the vehicle sales price as revenue. As a result, an increase in retail marketplace units sold as a percentage of total retail units sold would lead to a decrease in retail revenue per unit sold, and vice versa, other things being equal. The number of retail vehicles we sell depends on the volume of traffic to our website, our inventory selection, the effectiveness of our branding and marketing efforts, the quality of our customers' purchase experience, our volume of referrals and repeat customers, the competitiveness of our pricing, competition from other used car dealerships, and general macroeconomic and used car industry conditions. On a quarterly basis, the number of retail vehicles we sell is also affected by seasonality, with demand for retail vehicles generally reaching a seasonal high point late in the first quarter of each year, commensurate with the timing of tax refunds, and diminishing through the rest of the year, with the lowest relative level of retail vehicle sales generally expected to occur in the fourth calendar quarter. In 2023, heightened inflation and rising interest rates resulted in lower demand for used vehicles. Heightened inflation and interest rates persisted during the first several months of 2024, and, to a lesser extent, during the remainder of 2024, but were outweighed by seasonal demand associated with the timing of tax refunds and certain of our initiatives focused on growth in retail units sold. Our revenue per retail unit depends on macroeconomic and used car industry conditions, the mix of vehicles we acquire, retail prices in our markets, our pricing strategy, our average days to sale, and the number of retail marketplace units sold. We may choose to shift our inventory mix to higher or lower cost vehicles, or to raise or lower our prices relative to market to take advantage of supply or demand imbalances, which could temporarily lead to average selling prices increasing or decreasing. We also generally expect lower average days to sale to be associated with higher retail average selling prices due to decreased vehicle depreciation prior to sale, all other factors being equal. Wholesale Sales and Revenues Wholesale sales and revenues include the aggregate proceeds we receive on vehicles we acquire and sell to wholesalers and wholesale marketplace revenues. The vehicles we sell to wholesalers are primarily acquired from customers who sell a vehicle to us without purchasing a retail vehicle and from our customers who trade-in their existing vehicles when making a purchase from us. Factors affecting wholesale sales and revenues include the number of wholesale units sold and the average wholesale selling price of these vehicles. The average selling price of our wholesale units is primarily driven by the mix of vehicles we sell to wholesalers, as well as general supply and demand conditions in the applicable wholesale vehicle market, including the level of depreciation in the wholesale vehicle market. Wholesale sales and revenues includes aggregate proceeds we receive on vehicles sold to DriveTime through competitive online auctions that are managed by an unrelated third party and through the Company's wholesale marketplace platform. Wholesale marketplace revenues include revenue earned from the sale of wholesale marketplace units by third-party sellers to buyers through our wholesale marketplace platform, including auction fees and related services revenue. Other Sales and Revenues We generate other sales and revenues primarily through the sales of loans we originate and sell in securitization transactions or to financing partners, reported net of a reserve for expected repurchases, commissions we receive on VSCs, sales of GAP waiver coverage, and auto insurance, including Root Warrants we receive on sales of auto insurance. We generally seek to sell the loans we originate to securitization trusts we sponsor and establish or to financing partners. The securitization trusts issue asset-backed securities, some of which are collateralized by the finance receivables that we sell to the securitization trusts. We also sell the loans we originate under committed forward-flow arrangements, including a Master Purchase and Sale Agreement (as defined in Note 8 Finance Receivables Sales Agreements of our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," of this Annual Report on Form 10-K), and through fixed pool loan sales, with financing partners who generally acquire them at premium prices without recourse to us for their post-sale performance. Factors affecting revenue from these sales include the number of loans we originate, the average principal balance of the loans, the credit quality of the portfolio, the price at which we are able to sell them in securitization transactions or to financing partners, and economic conditions in the capital markets. 39 The number of loans we originate is driven by the number of retail vehicles sold and the percentage of our sales for which we provide financing, which is influenced by the financing terms we offer our customers relative to alternatives available to the customer. The average principal balance is driven primarily by the mix of vehicles we sell, since higher average selling prices typically mean higher average balances. The price at which we sell the loan is driven by the terms of our securitization transactions and forward-flow arrangement, applicable interest rates, and whether or not the loan includes GAP waiver coverage. We receive a commission for selling VSCs that DriveTime administers under a master dealer agreement with DriveTime. The commission revenue we recognize on VSCs depends on the number of retail units we sell, the conversion rate of VSCs on these sales, commission rates we receive, VSC early cancellation frequency and product features. The GAP waiver coverage revenue we recognize depends on the number of retail units we sell, the number of customers that choose to finance their purchases with us, the frequency of GAP waiver coverage early cancellation, and the conversion rate of GAP waiver coverage on those sales. Through our integrated auto insurance solution with Root, customers may conveniently access auto insurance directly from the Carvana e-commerce platform. We receive commissions and Root Warrants based on the Root insurance policies sold through the Integrated Platform. The commission revenue we recognize depends on the number of retail units we sell, the conversion rate of auto policies on those sales, commission rates we receive, and forecasted attrition. The revenue we recognize from Root Warrants as non-cash consideration depends on the probability of achieving certain auto policy sales thresholds within a specific timeline as well as our performance under the agreement with Root. Cost of Sales Cost of sales includes the cost to acquire, recondition, and transport vehicles associated with preparing them for resale, and wholesale marketplace cost of sales. Vehicle acquisition costs are driven by the mix of vehicles we acquire, the source of those vehicles, and supply-and-demand dynamics in the vehicle market. Reconditioning costs consist of direct costs, including parts, labor, and third-party repair expenses directly attributable to specific vehicles, as well as indirect costs, such as IRC overhead. Transportation costs consist of costs incurred to transport the vehicles from the point of acquisition to the IRC or other site. Cost of sales also includes any necessary adjustments to reflect vehicle inventory at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Wholesale marketplace cost of sales include costs related to the sale of wholesale marketplace units by third-party sellers through our wholesale marketplace platform, including labor, rent, depreciation and amortization. Retail Vehicle Gross Profit Retail vehicle gross profit is the vehicle sales price minus our costs of sales associated with vehicles that we list and sell on our website. Retail vehicle gross profit per unit is our aggregate retail vehicle gross profit in any measurement period divided by the number of retail units sold in that period. Wholesale Gross Profit Wholesale gross profit is the vehicle sales price minus our cost of sales associated with vehicles we sell to wholesalers, and wholesale marketplace revenues less wholesale marketplace cost of sales. Factors affecting wholesale gross profit include the number of wholesale units sold, the average wholesale selling price of these vehicles, the average acquisition price associated with these vehicles, the buyer and seller fees, and the number of wholesale marketplace units transacted. Other Gross Profit Other sales and revenues consist of 100% gross margin products for which gross profit equals revenue. Therefore, changes in gross profit and the associated drivers are identical to changes in revenues from these products and the associated drivers. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses ("SG&A") SG&A expenses include expenses associated with advertising and providing customer service to customers, including financing, title and registration and limited warranty services, operating our vending machines, hubs, physical auctions, logistics and fulfillment network and other corporate overhead expenses, including expenses associated with information technology, product development, engineering, legal, accounting, finance, and business development. SG&A expenses exclude the costs of inspecting and reconditioning vehicles and transporting vehicles from the point of acquisition to the IRC, which are 40 included in cost of sales, and payroll costs for our employees related to the development of software products for internal use, which are capitalized to software and depreciated over the estimated useful lives of the related assets. Other Operating Expense, Net Other operating expense, net primarily includes other general operating expenses such as gains or losses from disposals of long-lived assets. Interest Expense Interest expense includes interest incurred on our various tranches of Senior Secured Notes and Senior Unsecured Notes, our Floor Plan Facility, and our Finance Receivable Facilities (each as defined in Note 10 Debt Instruments of our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," of this Annual Report on Form 10-K), as well as our finance leases, and long-term debt, which are used to fund general working capital, our inventory, our transportation fleet, and certain of our property and equipment. Interest expense also includes amortization of capitalized debt issuance costs, which is offset by amortization of debt premium and interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents. Interest expense excludes the interest incurred during various construction projects to build, upgrade, or remodel certain facilities, which is capitalized to property and equipment and depreciated over the estimated useful lives of the related assets. Other (Income) Expense, Net Other (income) expense, net includes changes in fair value on our beneficial interests in securitizations, purchase price adjustment receivables, and fair value adjustments related to our Root Warrants as discussed in Note 18 Fair Value of Financial Instruments of our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Other (income) expense, net also includes expense related to our Tax Receivable Agreement ("TRA") liability. Refer to Note 15 Income Taxes for further discussion of the TRA. Income Tax (Benefit) Provision Income taxes are recognized based upon our anticipated underlying annual blended federal and state income tax rates adjusted, as necessary, for any discrete tax matters occurring during the period. As the sole managing member of Carvana Group, LLC (together with its subsidiaries Carvana Group ), Carvana Co. consolidates the financial results of Carvana Group. Carvana Group, LLC is treated as a partnership and therefore not subject to U.S. federal and most applicable state and local income tax purposes. Any taxable income or loss generated by Carvana Group is passed through to and included in the taxable income or loss of its members, including Carvana Co., based on its economic interest held in Carvana Group. Carvana Co. is taxed as a corporation and is subject to U.S. federal, state and local income taxes with respect to its allocable share of any taxable income or loss of Carvana Group, as well as any stand-alone income or loss generated by Carvana Co. 41 Results of Operations Years Ended December 31, 2024 2023 Change (dollars in millions, except per unit amounts) Net sales and operating revenues: Retail vehicle sales, net $ 9,681 $ 7,514 28.8 % Wholesale sales and revenues (1) 2,841 2,504 13.5 % Other sales and revenues (2) 1,151 753 52.9 % Total net sales and operating revenues $ 13,673 $ 10,771 26.9 % Gross profit: Retail vehicle gross profit $ 1,379 $ 746 84.9 % Wholesale gross profit (1) 346 225 53.8 % Other gross profit (2) 1,151 753 52.9 % Total gross profit $ 2,876 $ 1,724 66.8 % Unit sales information: Retail vehicle unit sales 416,348 312,847 33.1 % Wholesale vehicle unit sales 199,780 156,545 27.6 % Per unit revenue: Retail vehicles $ 23,252 $ 24,018 (3.2) % Wholesale vehicles (3) $ 9,611 $ 10,527 (8.7) % Per retail unit gross profit: Retail vehicle gross profit $ 3,312 $ 2,385 38.9 % Wholesale gross profit 831 719 15.6 % Other gross profit 2,765 2,407 14.9 % Total gross profit $ 6,908 $ 5,511 25.3 % Per wholesale unit gross profit: Wholesale vehicle gross profit (4) $ 996 $ 888 12.2 % Wholesale marketplace: Wholesale marketplace units transacted 955,802 871,200 9.7 % Wholesale marketplace revenues $ 921 $ 856 7.6 % Wholesale marketplace gross profit (5) $ 147 $ 86 70.9 % (1) Includes $28 and $19, respectively, of wholesale sales and revenues from related parties. (2) Includes $200 and $145, respectively, of other sales and revenues from related parties. (3) Excludes wholesale marketplace revenues and wholesale marketplace units transacted. (4) Excludes wholesale marketplace gross profit and wholesale marketplace units transacted. (5) Includes $86 and $102, respectively, of depreciation and amortization expense. Retail Vehicle Sales Retail vehicle sales increased by $2.2 billion to $9.7 billion during the year ended December 31, 2024 compared to $7.5 billion during the year ended December 31, 2023. The increase in revenue was primarily due to an increase in the number of retail vehicles sold to 416,348 from 312,847 during the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, partially offset by a decrease in retail revenue per retail unit sold to $23,252 in the year ended December 31, 2024 from $24,018 in the prior year, due primarily to higher retail marketplace units sold as a share of total retail units sold, partially offset by faster turn times, compared to the year ended December 31, 2023. 42 Wholesale Sales and Revenues Wholesale sales and revenues increased by $337 million to $2.8 billion during the year ended December 31, 2024, compared to $2.5 billion during the year ended December 31, 2023. The increase in revenue was primarily due to an increase in the number of wholesale units sold to 199,780 from 156,545 during the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. The increase in wholesale units sold was primarily a result of an increase in overall vehicle acquisitions during the year ended December 31, 2024 compared to the year ended December 31, 2023. The increase was partially offset by higher overall depreciation in the wholesale vehicle market as the wholesale revenue per wholesale unit sold decreased to $9,611 from $10,527 during the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Additionally, wholesale marketplace revenues were higher during the year ended December 31, 2024 at $921 million, compared to $856 million during the year ended December 31, 2023, primarily due to an increase in the number of wholesale marketplace units transacted to 955,802 from 871,200 during the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Other Sales and Revenues Other sales and revenues increased by $398 million to $1.2 billion during the year ended December 31, 2024, compared to $753 million during the year ended December 31, 2023. The increase was primarily due to an increase in gain on loan sales as a result of increased retail units sold, more loan sales, and higher loan sale spreads during the year ended December 31, 2024. Retail Vehicle Gross Profit Retail vehicle gross profit increased by $633 million to $1.4 billion during the year ended December 31, 2024, compared to $746 million during the year ended December 31, 2023. This increase was driven primarily by an increase in the number of retail vehicles sold to 416,348 from 312,847 during the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Additionally, retail vehicle gross profit per unit increased to $3,312 for the year ended December 31, 2024, compared to $2,385 for the year ended December 31, 2023. The per unit increase was primarily driven by lower average days to sale, lower vehicle acquisition costs relative to sales prices, and lower reconditioning and inbound transport costs on retail vehicles sold during the year ended December 31, 2024. Wholesale Gross Profit Wholesale gross profit increased by $121 million to $346 million during the year ended December 31, 2024, compared to $225 million during the year ended December 31, 2023. This increase was primarily driven by an increase in wholesale units sold to 199,780 from 156,545 during the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, along with an increase in wholesale vehicle gross profit per wholesale unit to $996 from $888, respectively. The increase in wholesale units sold was primarily a result of an increase in overall vehicle acquisitions during the year ended December 31, 2024 compared to the year ended December 31, 2023. The increase in wholesale vehicle gross profit per wholesale unit was primarily a result of lower vehicle acquisition costs relative to sales prices during the year ended December 31, 2024. Additionally, the increase was driven by an increase in marketplace gross profit by $61 million to $147 million during the year ended December 31, 2024, compared to $86 million during the year ended December 31, 2023, due to an increase in the number of wholesale marketplace units transacted to 955,802 from 871,200 during the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Other Gross Profit Other sales and revenues consist of 100% gross margin products for which gross profit equals revenue. Therefore, changes in other gross profit and the associated drivers are identical to changes in other sales and revenues and the associated drivers. 43 Components of SG&A Years Ended December 31, 2024 2023 (in millions) Compensation and benefits (1) $ 700 $ 661 Advertising 229 228 Market occupancy (2) 68 71 Logistics (3) 118 119 Other (4) 759 717 Total $ 1,874 $ 1,796 (1) Compensation and benefits includes all payroll and related costs, including benefits, payroll taxes, and equity-based compensation, except those related to preparing vehicles for sale, which are included in cost of sales, and those related to the development of software products for internal use, which are capitalized to software and depreciated over the estimated useful lives of the related assets. (2) Market occupancy costs includes occupancy costs of our vending machine and hubs. It excludes occupancy costs related to reconditioning vehicles which are included in cost of sales and the portion related to corporate occupancy which are included in other costs. (3) Logistics includes fuel, maintenance and depreciation related to operating our own transportation fleet, and third-party transportation fees, except the portion related to inbound transportation, which is included in cost of sales. (4) Other costs include all other selling, general and administrative expenses such as IT expenses, corporate occupancy, professional services and insurance, limited warranty, and title and registration. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $78 million to $1.9 billion during the year ended December 31, 2024 compared to $1.8 billion during the year ended December 31, 2023, primarily due to higher employee headcount and other SG&A expenses, primarily associated with higher retail units sold. Other Operating Expense, Net Other operating expense, net increased by $4 million to $12 million during the year ended December 31, 2024 compared to $8 million during the year ended December 31, 2023, due to higher disposals of long-lived assets. Interest Expense Interest expense increased by $19 million to $651 million during the year ended December 31, 2024 compared to $632 million during the year ended December 31, 2023, primarily due to increased interest on the Senior Secured Notes, partially offset by lower interest on the Senior Unsecured Notes, floor plan facility, and finance receivable facilities, and higher interest income. Loss (Gain) on Debt Extinguishment Loss on debt extinguishment was $12 million during the year ended December 31, 2024, due to the repurchase of $370 million of 2028 Senior Secured Notes in the open market for $384 million, which included $8 million of accrued interest and $1 million in pro-rata write-offs of unamortized debt issuance costs and unamortized premium. Additionally, in the year ended December 31, 2024 the Company redeemed $100 million of 2028 Senior Secured Notes for $108 million, which included $3 million of accrued interest. Gain on debt extinguishment was $878 million during the year ended December 31, 2023, due to the exchange of $5.5 billion in principal of Senior Unsecured Notes for $4.2 billion in principal of Senior Secured Notes and $341 million in cash, along with the write off of $66 million of debt issuance costs and a $40 million deferred premium on a portion of the Senior Secured Notes. Other (Income) Expense, Net Other (income) expense, net was income of $73 million during the year ended December 31, 2024 and was primarily due to a $115 million increase in the fair value of Root Warrants and a $23 million increase in the fair value of beneficial interests in securitizations, partially offset by $67 million of TRA expense. Other (income) expense, net was income of $9 million during the year ended December 31, 2023 and was primarily due to a $14 million increase in the fair value of beneficial interests in 44 securitizations, $6 million of other income, and a $3 million increase in the fair value of Root Warrants, partially offset by $14 million of TRA expense. Income Tax (Benefit) Provision Income tax (benefit) provision changed by $29 million to a benefit of $4 million during the year ended December 31, 2024 compared to an expense of $25 million during the year ended December 31, 2023. The change was primarily due to the income tax expense related to the cancellation of debt income recognized on the exchange of $5.5 billion in principal of Senior Unsecured Notes for $4.2 billion in principal of Senior Secured Notes and $341 million in cash during the year ended December 31, 2023. Non-GAAP Financial Measures To supplement the consolidated financial statements, which are prepared and presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP, we also present the following non-GAAP measures: Adjusted EBITDA; Adjusted EBITDA margin; Gross profit, non-GAAP; Total gross profit per retail unit, non-GAAP; SG&A expenses, non-GAAP; and Total SG&A expenses per retail unit, non-GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA; Adjusted EBITDA margin; Gross profit, non-GAAP; Total gross profit per retail unit, non-GAAP; SG&A expenses, non-GAAP; and Total SG&A expenses per retail unit, non-GAAP Adjusted EBITDA; Adjusted EBITDA margin; Gross profit, non-GAAP; Total gross profit per retail unit, non-GAAP; SG&A expenses, non-GAAP; and Total SG&A expenses per retail unit, non-GAAP are supplemental measures of operating performance that do not represent and should not be considered an alternative to net income (loss), gross profit, or SG&A expenses, as determined by GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net income (loss) plus income tax (benefit) provision, interest expense, other operating expense, net, other (income) expense, net, depreciation and amortization expense in cost of sales and SG&A expenses, share-based compensation expense in cost of sales and SG&A expenses, goodwill impairment, loss on debt extinguishment, and restructuring expense, minus revenue related to our Root Warrants and gain on debt extinguishment. Adjusted EBITDA margin is Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of total revenues. Gross profit, non-GAAP is defined as GAAP gross profit plus depreciation and amortization expense in cost of sales, share-based compensation expense in cost of sales, and restructuring expense in cost of sales, minus revenue related to our Root Warrants. Total gross profit per retail unit, non-GAAP is Gross profit, non-GAAP divided by retail vehicle unit sales. SG&A expenses, non-GAAP is defined as GAAP SG&A expenses minus depreciation and amortization expense in SG&A expenses, share-based compensation expense in SG&A expenses, and restructuring expense in SG&A expenses. Total SG&A expenses per retail unit, non-GAAP is SG&A expenses, non-GAAP divided by retail vehicle unit sales. We use these non-GAAP measures to measure the operating performance of our business as a whole and relative to our total revenues and retail vehicle unit sales. We believe that these metrics are useful measures to us and to our investors because they exclude certain financial, capital structure, and non-cash items that we do not believe directly reflect our core operations and may not be indicative of our recurring operations, in part because they may vary widely across time and within our industry independent of the performance of our core operations. We believe that excluding these items enables us to more effectively evaluate our performance period-over-period and relative to our competitors. Adjusted EBITDA; Adjusted EBITDA margin; Gross profit, non-GAAP; Total gross profit per retail unit, non-GAAP; SG&A expenses, non-GAAP; and Total SG&A expenses per retail unit, non-GAAP may not be comparable to similarly titled measures provided by other companies due to potential differences in methods of calculations. A reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net income (loss), Gross profit, non-GAAP to gross profit, and SG&A expenses, non-GAAP to SG&A expenses, which are the most directly comparable GAAP measures, and calculations of Adjusted EBITDA margin, Total gross profit per retail unit, non-GAAP, and Total SG&A expenses per retail unit, non-GAAP is as follows: 45 Years Ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 (dollars in millions, except per unit amounts) Net income (loss) $ 404 $ 150 $ (2,894) Income tax (benefit) provision (4) 25 1 Interest expense 651 632 486 Other operating expense, net 12 8 14 Other (income) expense, net (73) (9) 56 Depreciation and amortization expense in cost of sales 140 169 114 Depreciation and amortization expense in SG&A expenses 165 183 200 Share-based compensation expense in cost of sales 1 16 Share-based compensation expense in SG&A expenses 91 73 69 Goodwill impairment 847 Root warrant revenue (21) (21) (7) Loss (Gain) on debt extinguishment 12 (878) Restructuring expense (1) 7 57 Adjusted EBITDA $ 1,378 $ 339 $ (1,041) Total revenues $ 13,673 $ 10,771 $ 13,604 Net income (loss) margin 3.0 % 1.4 % (21.3) % Adjusted EBITDA margin 10.1 % 3.1 % (7.7) % Gross profit $ 2,876 $ 1,724 $ 1,246 Depreciation and amortization expense in cost of sales 140 169 114 Share-based compensation expense in cost of sales 1 16 Root warrant revenue (21) (21) (7) Restructuring expense in cost of sales (1) 7 Gross profit, non-GAAP $ 2,996 $ 1,872 $ 1,376 Retail vehicle unit sales 416,348 312,847 412,296 Total gross profit per retail unit $ 6,908 $ 5,511 $ 3,022 Total gross profit per retail unit, non-GAAP $ 7,196 $ 5,984 $ 3,337 SG&A expenses $ 1,874 $ 1,796 $ 2,736 Depreciation and amortization expense in SG&A expenses 165 183 200 Share-based compensation expense in SG&A expenses 91 73 69 Restructuring expense in SG&A expenses (1) 7 50 SG&A expenses, non-GAAP $ 1,618 $ 1,533 $ 2,417 Retail vehicle unit sales 416,348 312,847 412,296 Total SG&A expenses per retail unit $ 4,501 $ 5,741 $ 6,636 Total SG&A expenses per retail unit, non-GAAP $ 3,886 $ 4,900 $ 5,862 (1) For the year ended December 31, 2022, includes $28 million of lease termination fees, net of amounts written off for the corresponding operating lease right-of-use assets and operating lease liabilities which were terminated, $26 million of expenses associated with workforce reductions, of which $7 million was recorded to cost of sales, and $3 million of other restructuring-related costs. 46 Liquidity and Capital Resources General We generate cash from the sale of retail vehicles, wholesale vehicles, loans we originate, and VSCs, GAP waiver coverage, and other complementary products. We generate additional cash flows through our financing activities including our short-term revolving inventory and finance receivable facilities and real estate and equipment financing, the issuance of debt securities, and new issuances of equity. Historically, cash generated from financing activities has funded growth and expansion into new markets and strategic initiatives and we expect this to continue in the future. In response to the macroeconomic environment, our focus in past years has been on driving profitability through initiatives to better conform our expense structure to unit volume levels and create a strong operational foundation, allowing us to shift focus throughout 2024 to the long-term phase of driving profitable growth. We expect to continue our focus on profitability initiatives as we continue to grow. We expect our primary sources of cash to continue to be sufficient to fund our operating activities and cash commitments for investing and financing activities for at least the next 12 months. Our ability to service our debt and fund working capital, capital expenditures, and business development efforts in the long-term depends on our ability to generate cash from operating and financing activities, which is subject to our future operating performance, as well as to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other conditions, some of which are beyond our control. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including our ability to generate cash from operating activities, our ability to refinance indebtedness, our ability to obtain supplemental liquidity through debt, equity, including the issuance of equity pursuant to our ATM Program, strategic relationships or other arrangements on terms available or acceptable to us, our rate of revenue growth, our construction of IRCs and vending machines, the timing and extent of our spending to support our technology and software development efforts, our advertising spend, and increased population coverage. If we need to obtain supplemental liquidity, there can be no assurance that financing alternatives will be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us in the future. On July 19, 2023, the Company entered into an agreement (the "Distribution Agreement") to establish an ATM Program, and on July 31, 2024, the Company refreshed the ATM Program by entering into an Amended and Restated Distribution Agreement with Barclays Capital Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Moelis & Company LLC, and Virtu Americas LLC. Under the ATM Program as of December 31, 2024, the Company could sell up to the greater of (i) shares of Class A common stock representing an aggregate offering price of $1.0 billion, or (ii) an aggregate of 35 million shares of Class A common stock, from time to time. In the year ended December 31, 2024, we issued 6.8 million shares of Class A common stock at a weighted-average issuance price per share of $186.56, for gross proceeds of $1.3 billion, which we are using for general corporate purposes. However, there can be no assurance that we will sell further shares of Class A common stock through the ATM Program, or otherwise. See Item 9B Other Information for a description of amendments to the ATM Program after December 31, 2024. Finally, subject to the restrictions in the indentures governing the Senior Secured Notes, we or our affiliates have and may again, at any time, and from time to time, repurchase shares of our Class A common stock, our Senior Unsecured Notes, our Senior Secured Notes, or any other securities we may issue, from time to time, in open market transactions, privately negotiated transactions, in exchange for property or other securities or otherwise. In addition, subject to the restrictions in the indentures governing the Senior Secured Notes and the terms of such notes and our Senior Unsecured Notes, we have and may again, redeem all or portions of such notes. During the year ended December 31, 2024, we repurchased and cancelled $370 million of principal amount of 2028 Senior Secured Notes and redeemed $100 million of 2028 Senior Secured Notes. Any additional repurchase or redemption decisions will be made after consideration of market conditions and liquidity needs and will be upon such terms and at such prices as we determine appropriate. However, there is no guarantee that a repurchase or redemption will take place. 47 Liquidity Resources We had the following committed liquidity resources, secured debt capacity, and other unpledged assets available as of December 31, 2024 and 2023: December 31, 2024 2023 (in millions) Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,716 $ 530 Availability under short-term revolving facilities (1) 1,879 1,006 Committed liquidity resources available $ 3,595 $ 1,536 Super senior debt capacity 1,500 1,262 Pari passu senior debt capacity 485 250 Unpledged beneficial interests in securitizations 110 80 Total liquidity resources $ 5,690 $ 3,128 (1) Based on pledging all eligible vehicles and finance receivables under the Floor Plan Facility and Finance Receivables Facilities, excluding the impact to restricted cash requirements. Our total liquidity potential is composed of cash and cash equivalents, availability under existing credit facilities, additional capacity under the indentures governing our Senior Secured Notes, which allow us to incur additional debt that can be senior or pari passu in lien priority as to the collateral securing the obligations under the Senior Secured Notes, and additional unpledged securities that can be financed using traditional asset-based financing sources. Cash and cash equivalents includes cash deposits and highly liquid investment instruments with original maturities of three months or less, such as money market funds. Availability under short-term revolving facilities is the available amount we can borrow under the Floor Plan Facility and Finance Receivable Facilities based on the value of pledgeable vehicle inventory and finance receivables on our balance sheet on the period end date. Availability under short-term revolving facilities is distinct from the total commitment amount of these facilities because it represents the amount we are able to borrow as of period end, rather than committed future amounts that could be borrowed to finance future additional assets. Effective November 1, 2023, we amended our vehicle inventory Floor Plan Facility to resize the line of credit to $1.5 billion through April 30, 2025. As of December 31, 2024 and 2023, the short-term revolving facilities had a total commitment of $4.2 billion each period, an outstanding balance of $67 million and $668 million, respectively, and unused capacity of $4.1 billion and $3.5 billion, respectively. Super senior debt capacity and pari passu senior debt capacity represents basket capacity to incur additional debt that could be senior or pari passu in lien priority as to the collateral securing the obligations under the Senior Secured Notes, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the indentures governing the Senior Secured Notes. The availability of such additional sources depends on many factors and there can be no assurance that financing alternatives will be available to us in the future. Unpledged beneficial interests in securitizations includes retained beneficial interests in securitizations that have not been previously pledged or sold. We historically have financed the majority of our retained beneficial interests in securitizations and expect to continue to do so in the future. Additionally, in January 2025, we amended our Master Purchase and Sale Agreement to, among other things, reestablish the commitment by the purchaser to purchase up to $4.0 billion of principal balances of finance receivables between January 3, 2025 and January 2, 2026. See Note 8 Finance Receivable Sale Agreements, included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for discussion regarding principal balances and unused capacity under the Master Purchase and Sale Agreement. To optimize our cost of capital, in any given period we may choose not to maximize borrowings on our short-term revolving facilities, maximize revolving commitment size, or immediately sale-leaseback real estate; and we may also choose to 48 retain beneficial interests in securitizations for varying amounts of time. This has the benefit of reducing interest expense and debt issuance costs and providing flexibility to minimize financing costs over time. We consider our total liquidity resources as an input into our planning. In general, changes in total liquidity resources fall into two broad categories: changes due to current business operations and changes due to investments in automotive retail assets. Changes in liquidity due to current business operations include impacts from fluctuations in Adjusted EBITDA, non-real estate capital expenditures, including technology, furniture, fixtures, and equipment, and changes in traditional working capital, including accounts receivable, accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other miscellaneous assets and liabilities. In the ordinary course of business, we sponsor and engage in securitization transactions to sell our finance receivables to a diverse pool of investors. These securitizations involve unconsolidated variable interest entities in which we retain at least 5% of the credit risk of the underlying finance receivable by holding at least 5% of the notes and certificates issued by these entities. We are exposed to market risk in the securitization market. See Note 9 Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities, included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion regarding our transactions with unconsolidated variable interest entities. In addition we also invest in and generate several types of assets, including vehicle inventory, finance receivables, retained beneficial interests in securitizations, and real estate. To maximize capital efficiency, we generally seek to finance these assets with matched sources of asset-based financing, including short-term revolving facilities for vehicle inventory and finance receivables, beneficial interests financing for retained beneficial interests in securitizations, and sale-leaseback or other real estate financing for IRCs and vending machines. We have historically used these sources of financing to finance our investment in these assets and expect to continue to do so in the future. As of December 31, 2024 and 2023, our outstanding principal amount of indebtedness was $5.5 billion and $6.0 billion, respectively, summarized in the table below. See Note 10 Debt Instruments and Note 16 Leases of our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on our debt. December 31, 2024 2023 (in millions) Asset-Based Financing: Floor plan facility $ 67 $ 113 Finance receivable facilities 555 Financing of beneficial interests in securitizations 354 293 Real estate financing 485 485 Total asset-based financing 906 1,446 Senior Secured Notes (1) 4,358 4,378 Senior Unsecured Notes 205 205 Total debt 5,469 6,029 Less: current portion (302) (777) Less: unamortized debt issuance costs (2) (46) (60) Plus: unamortized premium (3) 27 37 Total included in long-term debt, net $ 5,148 $ 5,229 (1) Includes $105 million and $185 million of accrued paid-in-kind ("PIK") interest as of December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Accrued PIK interest increases the principal amount of Senior Secured Notes on each semi-annual interest payment date. (2) The unamortized debt issuance costs related to long-term debt are presented as a reduction of the carrying amount of the corresponding liabilities on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Unamortized debt issuance costs related to revolving debt arrangements are presented within other assets on our consolidated balance sheets and not included here. (3) The unamortized premium relates to a portion of the notes exchange offers completed in September 2023 which were accounted for as a debt modification. 49 Cash Flows The following table presents a summary of our consolidated cash flows from operating, investing, and financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2024, and 2023: Years Ended December 31, 2024 2023 (in millions) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 918 $ 803 Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities (13) 31 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 261 (868) Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 1,166 (34) Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash at beginning of period 594 628 Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash at end of period $ 1,760 $ 594 Operating Activities Our primary sources of operating cash flows result from the sales of retail vehicles, wholesale vehicles, loans we originate, and VSCs, GAP waiver coverage, and other complementary products. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are purchases of inventory, personnel-related expenses, and cash used to acquire customers. Cash provided by operating activities was $918 million and $803 million for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, an increase in cash provided by operating activities of $115 million, primarily due to an improvement in operating results and a $274 million reduction in interest paid due to higher PIK interest on the Senior Secured Notes in the year ended December 31, 2024, partially offset by increased vehicle inventory acquisitions and a lower ratio of finance receivables sold relative to originations of finance receivables. Investing Activities Our primary use of cash for investing activities is purchases of property and equipment. Cash used in and provided by investing activities was $13 million and $31 million during the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, an increase in cash used in investing activities of $44 million, primarily driven by lower proceeds received from the sale of property and equipment in the year ended December 31, 2024, partially offset by increased principal payments received on and proceeds from the sale of beneficial interests in securitizations during the year ended December 31, 2024. Financing Activities Cash flows from financing activities primarily relate to our short and long-term debt activity, including proceeds from and payments on our short-term revolving facilities. Cash provided by and used in financing activities was $261 million and $868 million during the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, an increase in cash provided by financing activities of $1.1 billion primarily driven by higher net proceeds from our ATM Program and lower reliance on short-term revolving facilities during the year ended December 31, 2024. Contractual Obligations and Commitments We are party to contractual obligations involving commitments to third parties for which we believe we have sufficient liquidity to fund our operations and meet our obligations as they come due. These contractual obligations impact our liquidity and future capital requirements and primarily consist of long-term debt and related interest payments, leases, short-term revolving facilities, financing of beneficial interests in securitizations, and other purchase obligations and commitments. See Note 8 Finance Receivable Sale Agreements, Note 10 Debt Instruments, Note 16 Leases, and Note 17 Commitments and Contingencies of the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for more information related to these contractual obligations and commitments. 50 Fair Value Measurements We report money market securities, certain receivables, warrants to acquire Root's Class A common stock and beneficial interests in securitizations at fair value. See Note 18 Fair Value of Financial Instruments, included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statement and Supplementary Data," of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is incorporated into this item by reference. Critical Accounting Estimates The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenue and expenses and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of our financial statements. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions, impacting our reported results of operations and financial condition. Certain accounting policies involve significant judgments and assumptions by management, which have a material impact on the carrying value of assets and liabilities and the recognition of income and expenses. The estimates and assumptions used by management are based on historical experience and other factors, which are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The significant accounting estimates which we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results and have had or are reasonably likely to have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operation are described below. Refer to Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for more detailed information regarding our critical accounting policies. Revenue Recognition We sell retail vehicles directly to our customers through our website. We recognize revenue upon delivery to the customer or pick up of the vehicle by a customer at the agreed upon purchase price stated in the contract, including any delivery charges, less an estimate for returns. Our return policy allows customers to initiate a return during the first seven days after delivery. Estimates for returns are based on an analysis of historical experience, trends and sales data. Changes in these estimates are reflected as an adjustment to revenue in the period identified. Customers purchasing retail vehicles from us may enter into contracts for VSCs and, if they finance with us, GAP waiver coverage. The prices of VSCs and GAP waiver coverage are set forth in each contract. We sell and receive a commission on VSCs under a master dealer agreement with DriveTime, pursuant to which we sell VSCs that DriveTime administers and is the obligor. We receive a commission on GAP waiver coverage contracts where the administrator of the contract is obligated to reimburse the holder of the underlying finance receivable for a balance that is in excess of the value of the financed vehicle in the event of a total loss. We recognize commission revenue at the time of sale, net of a reserve for estimated contract cancellations. Our risk related to contract cancellations is limited to the commissions that we receive. Cancellations fluctuate depending on the customer-financing default or prepayment rates, and shifts in customer behavior, including those related to changes in the coverage or term of the product. To the extent that actual experience differs from historical trends, there could be significant adjustments to our contract cancellation reserves. The reserve for cancellations of VSCs and GAP waiver coverage is estimated based upon historical experience and recent trends and is reflected as a reduction of other sales and revenues. Changes in these estimates are reflected as an adjustment to revenue in the period identified. Under the master dealer agreement with DriveTime, we are also contractually entitled to receive profit-sharing revenues based on the performance of the VSCs once a required claims period has passed. This is a form of variable consideration we recognize as revenue to the extent that it is probable that it will not result in a significant revenue reversal. We apply the expected value method, utilizing expected VSC performance based on historical claims and cancellation data from our customers, as well as other qualitative assumptions to estimate the amount we expect to receive. We reassess the estimate each reporting period with any changes reflected as an adjustment to other sales and revenues in the period identified. Profit-sharing payments will begin when the underlying VSCs reach a specified level of claims history. Finance Receivables Finance receivables include installment contracts we originate to facilitate vehicle sales. We classify these receivables as held for sale, as we do not intend to hold the finance receivables we originate to maturity. We typically sell the finance 51 receivables we originate. We record a valuation allowance to report finance receivables at the lower of unpaid principal balance or fair value. To determine the fair value of finance receivables we utilize industry-standard modeling, such as discounted cash flow analysis, factoring in our historical experience, the credit quality of the underlying receivables, loss trends and recovery rates, as well as the overall economic environment. For purposes of determining the valuation allowance, finance receivables are evaluated collectively to determine the allowance as they represent a large group of smaller-balance homogeneous loans. To the extent that actual experience differs from historical trends, there could be significant adjustments to our valuation allowance. Principal balances of finance receivables are charged-off when we are unable to sell the finance receivable and the related vehicle has been repossessed and liquidated or the receivable has otherwise been deemed uncollectible. The estimates and trends used have historically been effective in our determination of our valuation allowance. Beneficial Interests in Securitizations The Company's beneficial interests in securitizations include rated notes and certificates and other assets, all of which are classified as Level 3 due to the lack of observable market data. The Company determines the fair value of its rated notes based on non-binding broker quotes. The non-binding broker quotes are based on models that consider the prevailing interest rates, recent market transactions, and current business conditions. The Company determines the fair value of its certificates and other assets using a combination of non-binding market quotes and internally developed discounted cash flow models. The discounted cash flow models use discount rates based on prevailing interest rates and the characteristics of the specific instruments. See Note 18 Fair Value of Financial Instruments, included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further detail on the discount rates. Significant increases or decreases in the inputs to the models could result in a significantly higher or lower fair value measurement. The Company elected the fair value option on its beneficial interests in securitizations, which allows it to recognize changes in the fair value of these assets in the period the fair value changes resulting in a gain or loss in that period. Valuation of Inventory Vehicle inventory consists of used vehicles, primarily acquired directly from customers and at auction. Direct and indirect vehicle reconditioning costs including parts and labor, inbound transportation costs and other incremental costs are capitalized as a component of inventory. Inventory is stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Vehicle inventory cost is determined by specific identification. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price less costs to complete, dispose and transport the vehicles. Selling prices are derived from historical data and trends, such as sales price and inventory turn times of similar vehicles, as well as independent market resources. Each reporting period we recognize any necessary adjustments to reflect vehicle inventory at the lower of cost or net realizable value through cost of sales. To the extent that there are significant changes to estimated vehicle selling prices or decreases in demand for used vehicles, there could be significant adjustments to reflect our inventory at net realizable value. Income Taxes We account for income taxes pursuant to the asset and liability method, which requires the recognition of deferred income tax assets and liabilities related to the expected future tax consequences arising from temporary differences between the carrying amounts and tax bases of assets and liabilities based on enacted statutory tax rates applicable to the periods in which the temporary differences are expected to reverse. Any effects of changes in income tax rates or laws are included in income tax expense in the period of enactment. We reduce the carrying amounts of deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance if, based on the evidence available, both positive and negative, as well as the objectivity and verifiability of that evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of our deferred tax assets will not be realized. The assessment considers, among other matters, the nature, frequency, and severity of current and cumulative losses, forecasts of future profitability, the duration of statutory carry forward periods by jurisdiction, our experience with loss carryforwards not expiring unutilized, and all tax-planning alternatives that may be available. Tax Receivable Agreement Our TRA liability is determined and recorded in accordance with ASC 450, Contingencies , which requires the determination of whether the liability is both probable and reasonably estimable. The primary consideration is our usage of deferred tax assets, which currently have a full valuation allowance applied against them. As such, we recognized a TRA liability of $82 million and $14 million as of December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, which represents the portion of the liability that is probable and reasonably estimable. For the remaining $2.0 billion TRA liability as of December 31, 2024, we determined that it was more likely than not that our deferred tax assets subject to the TRA would not be realized. 52 Business Combination Purchase Price Allocation The purchase price of an acquisition is allocated to the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their fair values at the date of acquisition, with the excess purchase price being recorded as goodwill. The allocation of purchase price to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired is specifically complex because of the significant estimates and assumptions involved in determining their fair values. Due to this higher degree of complexity, we obtained the assistance of outside valuation experts in the allocation of purchase price to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired. While outside valuation experts were used, management has the ultimate responsibility for the valuation methods, models and inputs used and the resulting purchase price allocation. Critical estimates used in valuing tangible assets associated with the ADESA Acquisition include, but are not limited to, the similarity of the acquired real property to market comparable transactions, costs of similar personal property in new condition, and economic obsolescence rates. Critical estimates used in valuing identifiable intangible assets associated with the ADESA Acquisition include, but are not limited to, revenues and attrition rate. 
