CIK: 1750
Company Name: AAR CORP
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2020-07-21
Accession Number: 0001104659-20-085310


ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Dollars in millions) Background and Forward-Looking Statements The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations, and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included in this Form 10-K, as well as Part II, Item 7, Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended May 31, 2019, which provides additional information on comparisons of fiscal 2019 and 2018. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contain certain statements relating to future results, which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on the beliefs of management, as well as assumptions and estimates based on information available to us as of the dates such assumptions and estimates are made, and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, including those factors discussed under Item 1A, Risk Factors, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. Should one or more of those risks or uncertainties materialize adversely, or should underlying assumptions or estimates prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described. Those events and uncertainties are difficult or impossible to predict accurately and many are beyond our control. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events. General Overview We report our activities in two business segments: Aviation Services comprised of supply chain and maintenance, repair and overhaul ( MRO ) activities and Expeditionary Services comprised of manufacturing activities. The Aviation Services segment consists of aftermarket support and services offerings that provide spare parts and maintenance support for aircraft operated by our commercial and government/defense customers. Sales in the Aviation Services segment are derived from the sale and lease of a wide variety of new, overhauled and repaired engine and airframe parts and components to the commercial aviation and government and defense markets. We provide customized inventory supply chain management, performance based logistics programs, customer fleet management and operations, and aircraft component repair management services. The segment also includes repair, maintenance and overhaul of aircraft, landing gear and components. Cost of sales consists principally of the cost of product, direct labor, and overhead. The Expeditionary Services segment consists of primarily manufacturing operations with sales derived from the design and manufacture of pallets, shelters, and containers used to support the U.S. military requirements for a mobile and agile force including engineering, design, and system integration services for specialized command and control systems. This segment also designs and manufactures advanced composite materials for commercial, business and military aircraft. Cost of sales consists principally of the cost of material to manufacture products, direct labor and overhead. Our chief operating decision making officer (Chief Executive Officer) evaluates performance based on the reportable segments and utilizes gross profit as a primary profitability measure. Gross profit is calculated by subtracting cost of sales from sales. The assets and certain expenses related to corporate activities are not allocated to the segments. Our reportable segments are aligned principally around differences in products and services. Business Trends and Outlook Fiscal 2020 began with strategic initiatives focused on growth and execution across all of our activities in the commercial and government markets. Our momentum from a successful fiscal 2019 carried into the new year as we saw continued strength in our parts supply activities, as well as in government programs. We also realized the positive impact our efforts to attract and retain talent had in our MRO activities. 21 Table of Contents We succeeded in enhancing customer relationships with multiple commercial and government customers. In fiscal 2020, we were awarded a new $118 million contract from the Naval Air Systems Command in support of the U.S. Marine Corps for the procurement, modification and delivery of two C-40 aircraft. This award demonstrates the power of our integrated services model by combining the strengths of our parts supply, government programs, MRO, and engineering teams to deliver a creative solution to the U.S. Marine Corps. We were also awarded new long-term contracts across our parts supply activities including multiple distribution agreements for new parts and our largest commercial agreement in Japan to date covering aftermarket engine components. Our strategy to exit the capital-intensive Contractor-Owned, Contractor-Operated ( COCO ) business was also completed in fiscal 2020 as all of its assets and contracts were sold. As we continued to successfully execute on our recent contract awards over the last few years, we achieved strong sales growth through the first nine months of fiscal 2020 and were on track for a record year. Sales had increased $166.4 million or 11.2% over the prior year period primarily due to an increase in sales of $175.5 million or 12.5% in our Aviation Services segment reflecting the growth from new contract awards and successful execution across our Aviation Services activities. Upon entering the fourth quarter in March, we began to see the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the commercial aviation industry. In response to the impact from COVID-19, we implemented significant actions to reduce fixed costs and overhead which included a freeze on new hiring, reducing or eliminating all non-essential spend, reducing compensation and benefits, furloughs, a reduction in force, and closure of an airframe maintenance facility. During the fourth quarter, we also exited underperforming contracts and assets across our operations and decided to exit our joint venture investment in a Malaysian landing gear wheel and brake facility. Additionally, in June 2020, we decided to sell our composites manufacturing business which is consistent with our multi-year strategy to focus our portfolio on our core services offerings. We have also taken actions to preserve flexibility in our liquidity. In the fourth quarter, we elected to draw down our remaining available borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility with the majority of that additional funding remaining in our cash accounts. We elected to borrow these additional amounts as a precautionary measure in light of economic and market uncertainty presented by COVID-19. Over the long-term, we expect to see continued strength in our Aviation Services segment given its offerings of value-added services to both commercial and government and defense customers. We believe long-term commercial aftermarket growth trends are favorable although there is uncertainty in certain fleet types as commercial operators re-evaluate their structure. Our results of operations are affected by the amount of commercial aircraft flying and flight hours. The current COVID-19 pandemic has decreased the amount of commercial aircraft flying and flight hours and has created significant economic disruption. Results of Operations Fiscal 2020 Compared with Fiscal 2019 Sales and gross profit for our two business segments for the two years ended May 31, 2020 and 2019 were as follows: For the Year Ended May 31, 2020 2019 % Change Sales: Aviation Services Commercial $ 1,268.9 $ 1,342.3 (5.5) % Government and defense 695.3 578.3 20.2 % $ 1,964.2 $ 1,920.6 2.3 % Expeditionary Services Commercial $ 24.3 $ 31.6 (23.1) % Government and defense 83.5 99.6 (16.2) % $ 107.8 $ 131.2 (17.8) % 22 Table of Contents For the Year Ended May 31, 2020 2019 % Change Gross Profit (Loss): Aviation Services Commercial $ 148.0 $ 195.7 (24.4) % Government and defense 119.3 117.9 1.2 % $ 267.3 $ 313.6 (14.8) % Expeditionary Services Commercial $ (3.6) $ 3.0 (220.0) % Government and defense 5.5 13.2 (58.3) % $ 1.9 $ 16.2 (88.3) % Aviation Services Segment Sales in the Aviation Services segment increased $43.6 million or 2.3% over the prior year. Sales to government and defense customers increased $117.0 million or 20.2% primarily attributable to new contracts awarded recently, including the $118 million contract for the procurement, modification and delivery of two C-40 aircraft we received in early fiscal 2020. During fiscal 2020, sales in this segment to commercial customers decreased $73.4 million or 5.5% from the prior year. We experienced an increase in sales to commercial customers of 7.2% over the first nine months of the year primarily due to higher volumes in our MRO activities as our actions to attract and retain the necessary skilled labor allowed us to capture the customer demand for these services. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, the impact from COVID-19 significantly decreased our commercial sales across the majority of our operations. Changes in estimates and assumptions related to our programs accounted for using the cost-to-cost method are recorded using the cumulative catch-up method of accounting. In fiscal 2020, we recognized favorable and unfavorable cumulative catch-up adjustments of $6.1 million and $2.2 million, respectively, compared to favorable and unfavorable cumulative catch-up adjustments of $8.0 million and $2.1 million, respectively, in fiscal 2019. When considering these adjustments on a net basis, we recognized favorable cumulative catch-up adjustments of $3.9 million and $5.9 million for fiscal 2020 and 2019, respectively. These adjustments primarily relate to our long-term programs where we provide component inventory management and/or repair services. Cost of sales in Aviation Services increased $89.9 million or 5.6% from the prior year which was largely in line with the sales increase of 2.3% discussed above. Gross profit in the Aviation Services segment decreased $46.3 million or 14.8% from the prior year. Gross profit in this segment on sales to commercial customers decreased $47.7 million or 24.4% from the prior year primarily driven by contract termination and restructuring charges of $31.3 million across certain power-by-the-hour contracts in fiscal 2020. The charges included a reduction in revenue of $17.3 million, the establishment of forward loss reserves of $5.4 million, and other related charges of $8.6 million. During fiscal 2020, we also recognized impairment charges of $6.9 million related to the exit of certain product lines across our operations and $4.3 million related to the closure of our Duluth airframe maintenance facility. The gross profit margin on sales to commercial customers was 11.7% compared to 14.6% in the prior year with the decreased margin largely attributable to contract termination, restructuring, and impairment charges discussed above. Gross profit on sales to government and defense customers increased $1.4 million or 1.2% over the prior year. Gross profit margin on sales to government and defense customers decreased to 17.2% from 20.4% as the gross profit margin on our recent contract awards is lower than our existing government and defense activity. Expeditionary Services Segment Sales in the Expeditionary Services segment decreased $23.4 million or 17.8% from the prior year primarily due to delays in contract awards for our mobility products. Gross profit in the Expeditionary Services segment decreased $14.3 million or 88.3% from the prior year and gross profit margin decreased to 1.8% from 12.3% both primarily as a result of restructuring actions and lower sales volumes. During fiscal 2020, we consolidated our mobility products operations into one core facility and exited certain product lines as part of the consolidation. We recognized charges of $2.8 million related to facility closure costs and impairment charges. 23 Table of Contents Provision for Doubtful Accounts Provision for doubtful accounts decreased $10.4 million from the prior year primarily related to fewer bankruptcy charges in fiscal 2020. In the second quarter of fiscal 2019, we recognized a provision for doubtful accounts of $12.4 million related to the bankruptcy of a European airline customer. The provision included impairment of non-current contract assets of $7.6 million, allowance for doubtful accounts of $3.3 million, and other liabilities of $1.5 million. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $5.2 million over the prior year. As a percent of sales, selling, general and administrative expenses remained relatively flat at 10.6% in fiscal 2020 compared to 10.5% in the prior year. Interest Expense Interest expense decreased $0.2 million in fiscal 2020 as the impact of higher average borrowings was more than offset by lower average borrowing rates on our Revolving Credit Facility. Income Taxes Our fiscal 2020 effective income tax rate for continuing operations was 18.4% compared to 5.5% in the prior year. In fiscal 2019, we recognized tax benefits of $5.1 million related to the reversal of certain state valuation allowances based on the recoverability of the net operating losses and other state deferred tax assets. The effective income tax rate for fiscal 2019 also includes a benefit of $4.7 million related to the recognition of previously unrecognized uncertain tax positions and a tax benefit of $1.8 million related to tax provision to federal income tax return filing differences. Discontinued Operations During the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we decided to pursue the sale of our COCO business previously included in our Expeditionary Services segment. Due to this strategic shift, the assets, liabilities, and results of operations of our COCO business were reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Loss from discontinued operations was $20.4 million in fiscal 2020 compared to $76.6 million in the prior year. The reduced loss of $56.2 million was primarily due to lower pre-tax impairment charges of $11.8 million in fiscal 2020 as compared to $74.1 million in fiscal 2019. Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Position Our operating activities are funded and commitments met through the generation of cash from operations. In addition to operations, our current capital resources include an unsecured Revolving Credit Facility and an accounts receivable financing program. Periodically, we may also raise capital through common stock and debt financings in the public or private markets. We continually evaluate various financing arrangements, including the issuance of common stock or debt, which would allow us to improve our liquidity position and finance future growth on commercially reasonable terms. Our continuing ability to borrow from our lenders and issue debt and equity securities to the public and private markets in the future may be negatively affected by a number of factors, including the overall health of the credit markets, general economic conditions, airline industry conditions, geo-political events, and our operating performance. Our ability to generate cash from operations is influenced primarily by our operating performance and changes in working capital. We maintain a Revolving Credit Facility with various financial institutions, as lenders, and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent for the lenders. On September 25, 2019, we entered into an amendment to our Revolving Credit Facility which extended the maturity of the Revolving Credit Facility to September 25, 2024, increased the revolving credit commitment by $100 million to $600 million, and modified certain other provisions. Under certain circumstances, we have the ability to request, but our lenders are not required to grant, an increase to the revolving credit commitment by an aggregate amount of up to $300 million. 24 Table of Contents Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility bear interest at the offered Eurodollar Rate plus 87.5 to 175 basis points based on certain financial measurements if a Eurodollar Rate loan, or at the offered fluctuating Base Rate plus 0 to 75 basis points based on certain financial measurements if a Base Rate loan. Borrowings outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility at May 31, 2020 were $579.5 million and there were approximately $19.9 million of outstanding letters of credit, which reduced the availability of this facility to $0.6 million. There are no other terms or covenants limiting the availability of this facility. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, we elected to draw down our Revolving Credit Facility as a precautionary measure in light of economic and market uncertainty presented by COVID-19. These additional borrowings from our Revolving Credit Facility are largely being maintained in Cash and cash equivalents on our Consolidated Balance Sheet which was $404.7 million at May 31, 2020. On March 27, 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act ( CARES Act ) was enacted in the U.S. in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Certain of our subsidiaries expect to receive $57.2 million from the U.S. Treasury Department through the Payroll Support Program under the CARES Act. These funds will be used to pay for the salaries and benefits of certain of those subsidiaries employees. Of the $57.2 million total amount we expect to receive, approximately $48.5 million will be a direct grant and approximately $8.7 million will be in the form of a low interest 10-year senior unsecured promissory note. As of May 31, 2020, we also had other financing arrangements that did not limit availability on our Revolving Credit Facility including outstanding letters of credit of $11.6 million and foreign lines of credit of $9.3 million. On October 18, 2017, we entered into the Credit Agreement with the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, as lender. The Credit Agreement provided a Canadian $31 million term loan with the proceeds used to fund the acquisition of two maintenance, repair, and overhaul facilities in Canada from Premier Aviation. The term loan is due in full at the expiration of the Credit Agreement on November 1, 2021 unless terminated earlier pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement. Interest is payable monthly on the term loan at the offered fluctuating Canadian Dollar Offer Rate plus 125 to 225 basis points based on certain financial measurements if a Bankers Acceptances loan, or at the offered fluctuating Prime Rate plus 25 to 125 basis points based on certain financial measurements, if a Prime Rate loan. On February 23, 2018, we entered into a Purchase Agreement with Citibank N.A. ( Purchaser ) for the sale, from time to time, of certain accounts receivable due from certain customers (the Purchase Agreement ). Under the Purchase Agreement, the maximum amount of receivables sold is limited to $150 million and Purchaser may, but is not required to, purchase the eligible receivables we offer to sell. The term of the Purchase Agreement runs through February 22, 2021, however, the Purchase Agreement may also be terminated earlier under certain circumstances. The term of the Purchase Agreement shall be automatically extended for annual terms unless either party provides advance notice that they do not intend to extend the term. We have no retained interests in the sold receivables, other than limited recourse obligations in certain circumstances, and only perform collection and administrative functions for the Purchaser. We account for these receivable transfers as sales under ASC 860, Transfers and Servicing , and de-recognize the sold receivables from our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Receivables sold under the Purchase Agreement during fiscal 2020, 2019, and 2018 were $746.4 million, $744.2 million, and $239.6, respectively. Amounts remitted to the Purchaser on their behalf during fiscal 2020, 2019, and 2018 were $758.3 million, $729.7 million, and $167.9, respectively. As of May 31, 2020 and May 31, 2019, we had collected cash of $20.0 million and $19.8 million, respectively, which was not yet remitted to the Purchaser as of those dates and was classified as Restricted cash on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. At May 31, 2020, we complied with all financial and other covenants under each of our financing arrangements. Cash Flows Fiscal 2020 Compared with Fiscal 2019 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities continuing operations was $19.1 million in fiscal 2020 compared to cash provided of $60.5 million in fiscal 2019. The decrease of $79.6 million was primarily attributable to timing of our cash receipts and disbursements on long-term programs. 25 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities continuing operations was $24.8 million in fiscal 2020 compared to $18.5 million in fiscal 2019. The increase from the prior year was primarily related to higher expenditures for property and equipment in the current year. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities continuing operations was $444.5 million in fiscal 2020 compared to cash used of $47.3 million in fiscal 2019. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, we elected to draw down our Revolving Credit Facility as a precautionary measure in light of economic and market uncertainty presented by COVID-19. These additional borrowings from our Revolving Credit Facility are largely being maintained in Cash and cash equivalents on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Contractual Obligations and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements A summary of contractual cash obligations and off-balance sheet arrangements as of May 31, 2020 is as follows: Payments Due by Period Due in Due in Due in Due in Due in After Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Total 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 On Balance Sheet: Bank borrowings $ 602.0 $ $ 22.5 $ $ $ 579.5 $ Facilities and equipment operating leases 99.2 16.5 14.5 12.7 10.7 8.3 36.5 Interest 1 30.1 7.2 7.0 6.8 6.8 2.3 Off Balance Sheet: Purchase obligations 2 366.2 344.8 15.8 5.4 0.1 0.1 Pension contribution 3 3.1 3.1 Notes: 1 Interest associated with variable rate debt was determined using the interest rate in effect on May 31, 2020. 2 Purchase obligations arise in the ordinary course of business and represent a binding commitment to acquire inventory, including raw materials, parts, and components, as well as equipment to support the operations of our business. 3 Our contribution policy for the domestic plans is to contribute annually, at a minimum, an amount which is deductible for federal income tax purposes and that is sufficient to meet actuarially computed pension benefits. For our Netherlands pension plan, our policy is to fund at least the minimum amount required by the local laws and regulations. We anticipate contributing approximately $3.1 million to our pension plans during fiscal 2021, which includes approximately $1.1 million of the Netherlands fiscal 2020 contribution which was deferred to fiscal 2021. We routinely issue letters of credit and performance bonds in the ordinary course of business. These instruments are typically issued in conjunction with insurance contracts or other business requirements. The total of these instruments outstanding at May 31, 2020 was $31.5 million. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates Our Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Management has made estimates and assumptions relating to the reporting of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities to prepare the Consolidated Financial Statements. The most significant estimates made by management include those related to assumptions used in assessing goodwill impairment, adjustments to reduce the value of inventories and certain rotable assets, revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, and assumptions used in determining pension plan obligations. Accordingly, actual results could differ materially from those estimates. The following is a summary of the accounting policies considered critical by management. 26 Table of Contents Goodwill Under accounting standards for goodwill and other intangible assets, goodwill and other intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized, but are subject to annual impairment tests. We review and evaluate our goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets for potential impairment at a minimum annually, on May 31, or more frequently if circumstances indicate that impairment is possible. The accounting standards for goodwill allow for either a qualitative or quantitative approach for the annual impairment test. Under the qualitative approach, factors such as macroeconomic conditions, industry and market conditions and company-specific events or circumstances are assessed to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. When the quantitative approach is utilized, we compare the fair value of each reporting unit with the carrying value of the reporting unit, including goodwill. If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying value of the reporting unit, we would be required to recognize an impairment loss for the excess carrying value of the reporting unit assets. In fiscal 2018, we performed an interim goodwill impairment test over our former Airlift reporting unit as a result of a decision to exit our COCO business. The COCO business was reclassified to discontinued operations and goodwill was allocated to the COCO business based on its relative fair value to the reporting unit. The fair value of the reporting unit was determined based on a combination of the expected net proceeds upon sale and a discounted cash flow analysis. As the fair value of the COCO business was below its carrying value, a goodwill impairment charge of $9.8 million was recorded in the third quarter of fiscal 2018. As of May 31, 2020, we had three reporting units, which included two in our Aviation Services segment (Aviation Supply Chain and Maintenance, Repair, and Overhaul) and one comprised of our Expeditionary Services segment. In fiscal 2019 and 2018, we utilized the qualitative assessment approach for all reporting units. Under this approach, we considered the overall industry and market conditions related to the aerospace and government/defense markets as well as conditions in the global capital markets. We also considered the long-term forecasts for each reporting unit, which incorporated specific opportunities and risks, working capital requirements, and capital expenditure needs. We concluded it was more likely than not that the fair value of each reporting unit exceeded its carrying value at the respective measurement dates, and thus no impairment charges were recorded in those fiscal years. In fiscal 2020, we elected to skip the qualitative assessment due to the unprecedented impact of COVID-19 and utilized a quantitative assessment approach for all reporting units. We estimated the fair value of each reporting unit using primarily an income approach based on discounted cash flows. The assumptions we used to estimate the fair value of our reporting units are based on historical performance, as well as forecasts used in our current business plan and require considerable management judgment in light of the impact of COVID-19. All three of our reporting units have been impacted by the reduced numbers of commercial aircraft flying and the overall decline in flight hours. We have incorporated a decline in demand from commercial airline customers for our next fiscal year followed by a multiple year recovery as passenger miles and flight hours progressively increase. We used discount rates based on our consolidated weighted average cost of capital which is adjusted for each of our reporting units based on their specific risk, size, and industry characteristics. The fair value measurements used for our goodwill impairment testing use significant unobservable inputs, which reflect our own assumptions about the inputs that market participants would use in measuring fair value. The fair value of our reporting units is also impacted by our overall market capitalization and may be impacted by volatility in our stock price and assumed control premium, among other items. Upon completion of the annual quantitative goodwill impairment analysis as of May 31, 2020 for our reporting units, we concluded the fair value of each reporting unit exceeded its carrying values, and thus no impairment charges were recorded. We also evaluate the sensitivity of the discounted cash flow valuations by assessing the impact of changes in certain assumptions on the estimated fair value of each reporting unit by increasing the discount rates and/or adjusting our business plan assumptions including slower recovery of sales from COVID-19 and reduced profitability. All of our reporting units would have had fair values substantially in excess of their carrying values under all our sensitivity scenarios. 27 Table of Contents Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market (estimated net realizable value). Cost is determined by the specific identification, average cost or first-in, first-out methods. Write-downs are made for excess and obsolete inventories and inventories that have been impaired as a result of industry conditions. We have utilized certain assumptions when determining the market value of inventories, such as inventory quantities and aging, historical sales of inventory, current and expected future aviation usage trends, replacement values, expected future demand, and historical scrap recovery rates. Reductions in demand for certain of our inventories or declining market values, as well as differences between actual results and the assumptions utilized by us when determining the market value of our inventories, could result in the recognition of impairment charges in future periods. In conjunction with the decision to exit certain product lines and facilities, we recognized inventory impairment charges of $3.9 million in fiscal 2020. Revenue Recognition Revenue is measured based on consideration specified in a contract with a customer, and excludes any sales incentives and amounts collected on behalf of third parties. We recognize revenue when we satisfy a performance obligation by transferring control over a product or service to a customer. Our unit of accounting for revenue recognition is a performance obligation included in our customer contracts. A performance obligation reflects the distinct good or service that we must transfer to a customer. At contract inception, we evaluate if the contract should be accounted for as a single performance obligation or if the contract contains multiple performance obligations. In some cases, our contract with the customer is considered one performance obligation as it includes factors such as whether the good or service being provided is significantly integrated with other promises in the contract, whether the service provided significantly modifies or customizes another good or service or whether the good or service is highly interdependent or interrelated. If the contract has more than one performance obligation, we determine the standalone price of each distinct good or service underlying each performance obligation and allocate the transaction price based on their relative standalone selling prices. The transaction price of a contract, which can include both fixed and variable amounts, is allocated to each performance obligation identified. Some contracts contain variable consideration, which could include incremental fees or penalty provisions related to performance. Variable consideration that can be reasonably estimated based on current assumptions and historical information is included in the transaction price at the inception of the contract but limited to the amount that is probable that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur. Variable consideration that cannot be reasonably estimated is recorded when known. Our performance obligations are satisfied over time as work progresses or at a point in time based on transfer of control of products and services to our customers. The majority of our sales from products are recognized at a point in time upon transfer of control to the customer, which generally occurs upon shipment. In connection with certain sales of products, we also provide logistics services, which include inventory management, replenishment, and other related services. The price of such services is generally included in the price of the products delivered to the customer, and revenues are recognized upon delivery of the product, at which point the customer has obtained control of the product. We do not account for these services separate from the related product sales as the services are inputs required to fulfill part orders received from customers. For our performance obligations that are satisfied over time, we measure progress in a manner that depicts the performance of transferring control to the customer. As such, we utilize the input method of cost-to-cost to recognize revenue over time as this depicts when control of the promised goods or services are transferred to the customer. Revenue is recognized based on the relationship of actual costs incurred to date to the estimated total cost at completion of the performance obligation. We are required to make certain judgments and estimates, including estimated revenues and costs, as well as inflation and the overall profitability of the arrangement. Key assumptions involved include future labor costs and efficiencies, overhead costs, and ultimate timing of product delivery. Differences may occur between the judgments and estimates made by management and actual program results. Changes in estimates and assumptions related to our arrangements accounted for using the cost-to-cost method are recorded using the cumulative catch-up method of accounting. These changes are primarily adjustments to the estimated profitability for our long-term programs where we provide component inventory management and/or repair services. 28 Table of Contents When contracts are modified, we consider whether the modification either creates new or changes the existing enforceable rights and obligations. Contract modifications that are for goods or services that are not distinct from the existing contract, due to the significant integration with the original goods or services provided, are accounted for as if they were part of that existing contract with the effect of the contract modification recognized as an adjustment to revenue on a cumulative catch-up basis. When the modifications include additional performance obligations that are distinct, they are accounted for as a new contract and performance obligation, which are recognized prospectively. Under most of our U.S. government contracts, if the contract is terminated for convenience, we are entitled to payment for items delivered and fair compensation for work performed, the costs of settling and paying other claims, and a reasonable profit on the costs incurred or committed. We have elected to use certain practical expedients permitted under ASC 606. Shipping and handling fees and costs incurred associated with outbound freight after control over a product has transferred to a customer are accounted for as a fulfillment cost and are included in Cost of sales on our Consolidated Statements of Income, and are not considered a performance obligation to our customers. Our reported sales on our Consolidated Statements of Income are net of any sales or related non-income taxes. We also utilize the as invoiced practical expedient in certain cases where performance obligations are satisfied over time and the invoiced amount corresponds directly with the value we are providing to the customer. The timing of revenue recognition, customer billings, and cash collections results in a contract asset or contract liability at the end of each reporting period. Contract assets consist of unbilled receivables or costs incurred where revenue recognized over time using the cost-to-cost model exceeds the amounts billed to customers. Contract liabilities include advance payments and billings in excess of revenue recognized. Certain customers make advance payments prior to the satisfaction of our performance obligations on the contract. These amounts are recorded as contract liabilities until such performance obligations are satisfied, either over time as costs are incurred or at a point in time when deliveries are made. Contract assets and contract liabilities are determined on a contract-by-contract basis. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts to reflect the expected uncollectibility of accounts receivable based on past collection history and specific risks identified among uncollected accounts. In determining the required allowance, we consider factors such as general and industry-specific economic conditions, customer credit history, and our customers current and expected future financial performance. The majority of our customers are recurring customers with an established payment history. Certain customers are required to undergo an extensive credit check prior to delivery of products or services. We perform regular evaluations of customer payment experience, current financial condition, and risk analysis. We may require collateral in the form of security interests in assets, letters of credit, and/or obligation guarantees from financial institutions for transactions executed on other than normal trade terms. We also maintain trade credit insurance for certain customers to provide coverage, up to a certain limit, in the event of insolvency of some customers. In fiscal 2019, we recognized a provision for doubtful accounts of $12.4 million related to the bankruptcy of a European airline customer. The provision consisted of impairment of non-current contract assets of $7.6 million, allowance for doubtful accounts of $3.3 million, and other liabilities of $1.5 million. In addition, we currently have past due accounts receivable owed by former commercial program customers primarily related to our exit from customer contracts in certain geographies, including Colombia, Peru, and Poland. Our past due accounts receivable owed by these customers was $10.9 million as of May 31, 2020 which was net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $9.3 million. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets We are required to test for impairment of long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable from its undiscounted cash flows. When applying accounting standards addressing impairment of long-lived assets, we have utilized certain assumptions to estimate future undiscounted cash flows, including current and future sales volumes or lease rates, expected changes to cost structures, lease terms, residual values, market conditions, and trends impacting future demand. Differences between actual results and the assumptions utilized by us when determining undiscounted cash flows could result in future impairments of long-lived assets. We recognized pre-tax asset impairment charges related to our COCO business of $11.8 million, $74.1 million, and $64.0 million in fiscal 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively, related to assets included in our COCO business, which is classified as a discontinued operation. 29 Table of Contents We maintain a significant inventory of rotable parts and equipment to service customer aircraft and components. Portions of that inventory are used parts that are often exchanged with parts removed from aircraft or components, and are reworked to a useable condition. We may have to recognize an impairment of our rotable parts and equipment if we discontinue using or servicing certain aircraft models or if an older aircraft model is phased-out in the industry. In conjunction with the decision to exit certain product lines, we recognized rotable asset impairment charges of $1.9 million in fiscal 2020. Pension Plans The projected benefit obligation for our benefit plans exceeds our plan assets by $27.3 million as of May 31, 2020. Our projected benefit obligation exceeds our plan assets for both our U.S. plans and for our Netherlands plan with the U.S. benefit plans underfunded by $14.6 million and the Netherlands plan underfunded by $12.7 million. The liabilities and net periodic cost of our pension plans are determined utilizing several actuarial assumptions, the most significant of which are the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. AAR uses discount rates to measure our benefit obligation and net periodic benefit cost for our pension plans. We used a broad population of Aa-rated corporate bonds as of May 31, 2020 to determine the discount rate assumption. All bonds were denominated in U.S. Dollars, with a minimum outstanding of $50.0 million. This population of bonds was narrowed from a broader universe of over 500 Moody Aa-rated, non-callable (or callable with make-whole provisions) bonds by eliminating the top 10 th percentile and the bottom 40 th percentile to adjust for any pricing anomalies and to represent the bonds we would most likely select if we were to actually annuitize our pension plan liabilities. This portfolio of bonds was used to generate a yield curve and associated spot rate curve to discount the projected benefit payments for the domestic plans. The discount rate is the single level rate that produces the same result as the spot rate curve. We establish the long-term asset return assumption based on a review of historical compound average asset returns, both company-specific and relating to the broad market, as well as analysis of current market and economic information and future expectations. The current asset return assumption is supported by historical market experience for both our actual and target asset allocation. In calculating the net pension cost, the expected return on assets is applied to a calculated value on plan assets, which recognizes changes in the fair value of plan assets in a systematic manner over five years. The difference between this expected return and the actual return on plan assets is a component of the total net unrecognized gain or loss and is subject to amortization in the future. New Accounting Pronouncements Adopted In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) No. 2016-02, Leases ( ASC 842 ), which amended the existing accounting standards for lease accounting. ASC 842 requires lessees to recognize a right-of-use ( ROU ) asset and lease liability on the balance sheet for most lease arrangements, including those classified as operating leases. In addition, ASC 842 requires new qualitative and quantitative disclosures about our leasing activities. We adopted ASC 842 on June 1, 2019 using the modified retrospective transition approach. Under that approach, prior periods have not been restated and continue to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods. A discussion of our revised accounting policy for leases is included in Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We have elected the package of practical expedients, which must be elected as a package and applied consistently to all leases. This package permits us to not reassess our prior conclusions about lease identification, lease classification and initial direct costs. In addition, we have elected the practical expedients to not separate lease and non-lease components for both lessee and lessor relationships and to not apply the recognition requirements to leases with terms of less than twelve months. Upon adoption of ASC 842 on June 1, 2019, we recognized operating lease ROU assets of $123.2 million and operating lease liabilities of $116.8 million on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. These amounts included operating lease ROU assets of $26.6 million and operating lease liabilities of $25.3 million related to our discontinued operations. In addition, we recognized the remaining unamortized deferred gains of $2.5 million, net of tax, associated with sale-leaseback transactions as a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings as of June 1, 2019. The adoption of ASC 842 did not have a material impact on the Consolidated Statements of Operations or Cash Flows. 30 Table of Contents The impact of the adoption of ASC 842 on our Consolidated Balance Sheet was as follows: As of May 31, 2019 ASC 842 Adjustments As of June 1, 2019 Assets of discontinued operations $ 29.2 $ 26.6 $ 55.8 Other current assets 36.2 (0.5) 35.7 Intangible assets, net 22.2 (8.5) 13.7 Operating lease ROU assets 96.6 96.6 Other non-current assets 77.5 (1.8) 75.7 Accrued liabilities 140.5 10.0 150.5 Liabilities of discontinued operations 29.2 25.3 54.5 Operating lease liabilities 77.7 77.7 Other liabilities 28.3 (3.1) 25.2 Retained earnings 709.8 2.5 712.3 In May 2014, the FASB issued ASC 606, which provides guidance for revenue recognition. ASC 606 superseded the revenue recognition requirements in ASC 605, Revenue Recognition , and most industry-specific guidance. We adopted ASC 606 on June 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method. Under that approach, prior periods were not restated and continue to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods. We elected to use the practical expedient allowing for the application of ASC 606 only to contracts that were not completed as of June 1, 2018. We recognized the cumulative effect of initially applying ASC 606 as a decrease of $20.4 million to the opening balance of retained earnings as of June 1, 2018. The adoption of ASC 606 impacted us in three primary areas. First, we have certain contracts in which revenue is recognized using the percentage of completion method over the expected term of the contract. Under ASC 606, the contract term used for revenue recognition purposes was shortened to exclude any unexercised customer option years or incorporate customer rights to terminate the contract without significant penalty as we do not have any enforceable rights or obligations prior to the exercise of the underlying option. The impact of this change as of June 1, 2018 resulted in the elimination of certain deferred costs and the establishment of accrued liabilities reflecting our estimated obligations under the contracts. For this change, we recognized a decrease of $22.1 million to the opening balance of retained earnings as of June 1, 2018. Second, we have contracts under which we perform repair services on customer-owned assets whereby the customer simultaneously receives the benefits of the repair. These contracts also transitioned to an over time revenue recognition model as of June 1, 2018 compared to our prior policy of recognizing revenue at the time of shipment. The impact of this change as of June 1, 2018 resulted in the elimination of certain inventory and accounts receivable amounts and the establishment of a contract asset reflecting the over time revenue recognition treatment. For this change, we recognized an increase of $1.3 million to the opening balance of retained earnings as of June 1, 2018. Third, we have certain contracts under which we manufacture products with no alternative use as the customer owns the underlying intellectual property and we have an enforceable right to payment from the customer. As a result, we now recognize revenue for these contracts over time as opposed to at the time of shipment, which was our policy prior to June 1, 2018. The impact of this change as of June 1, 2018 resulted in the elimination of certain inventory amounts and the establishment of a contract asset reflecting the over time revenue recognition treatment. For this change, we recognized an increase of $0.4 million to the opening balance of retained earnings as of June 1, 2018. New Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments Credit Losses (Topic 326), Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments . This ASU requires a change in the measurement approach for credit losses on financial assets measured on an amortized cost basis from an incurred loss method to an expected loss method, thereby eliminating the requirement that a credit loss be considered probable to impact the valuation of a financial asset measured on an amortized cost basis. This ASU also requires the measurement of expected credit losses to be based on relevant information about past events, including historical experience, current conditions, and a reasonable and supportable forecast of the collectability of the related financial asset. We plan to adopt this ASU on June 1, 2020 and the adoption is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 31 Table of Contents 
