CIK: 1875444
Company Name: ARHAUS INC 
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2023-03-09
Accession Number: 0001875444-23-000018


Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations We have prepared this Management's Discussion and Analysis ( MD&A ) as an aid to understanding our financial results. It should be read together with the accompanying consolidated financial statements and related notes. It includes management analysis of past financial results and certain potential factors that may affect future results, potential future risks and approaches that may be used to manage those risks. Some of the statements we make in this section are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. For a complete discussion of forward-looking statements, see the section in this Report entitled Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. In addition to the discussion of potential risks discussed in MD&A, certain other risk factors may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the following discussion. For a discussion of such risk factors, see the section in this Annual Report entitled Risk Factors. This discussion and analysis addresses 2022 and 2021 items and year-over-year comparisons between 2022 and 2021. Discussions regarding our financial condition and results of operations for 2021 compared to 2020 not included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K can be found in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021. Overview Arhaus is a rapidly growing lifestyle brand and premium retailer in the U.S. home furnishings market, specializing in livable luxury supported by globally-sourced, heirloom-quality merchandise. We offer a differentiated direct-to-consumer approach to furniture and d cor. Our curated assortments are presented across our sales channels in sophisticated, family friendly and unique lifestyle settings. We offer merchandise assortments across a number of categories, including furniture, lighting, textiles, d cor, and outdoor. Our products, designed to be used and enjoyed throughout the home, are sourced directly from factories and vendors with no wholesale or dealer markup, allowing us to offer an exclusive assortment at an attractive value. Our direct sourcing network consists of more tha n 400 vendors , some of whom we have had relationships with since our founding. Our product development teams work alongside our direct sourcing partners to bring to market proprietary merchandise that is a great value to clients, while delivering attractive margins. We believe in p roviding a dynamic and welcoming experience in our Showrooms and online with the conviction that retail is theater. Our national omni-channel business positions our retail locations as Showrooms for our brand, while our website acts as a virtual extension of our Showrooms. Our theater-like Showrooms are highly inspirational and function as an invaluable brand awareness vehicle. Our seasoned sales associates and in-home designers provide expert advice and assistance to our client base that drives significant client engagement. Our omni-channel model allows clients to begin or end their shopping journey online, while also experiencing our theater-like Showrooms throughout the shopping journey. As of December 31, 2022, we operated 81 Showrooms , 65 with in-home interior designers. O ur Showrooms pan 29 states and consist of 72 traditional showrooms, 6 Design Studios and 3 Outlets. Reorganization and Initial Public Offering On November 4, 2021, the Company completed its initial public offering (the IPO ) and sold 12,903,226 shares of Class A common stock at an IPO price of $13.00 per share and received proceeds of $151.4 million, net of underwriting discounts and commissions of $10.4 million and offering expenses of $5.9 million. Shares of the Company Class A common stock are traded on the Nasdaq under the ticker symbol ARHS. In connection with the IPO, the Company reorganized its ownership structure from a limited liability company to a corporation for the purpose of issuing common stock on a publicly traded exchange (the Reorganization ). Factors Affecting Our Business Our business performance and results of operations have been, and will continue to be, affected by the factors described below. While each of these key factors presents significant opportunities for our business, they also pose challenges that we must successfully address in order to sustain growth, improve our results of operations and achieve and maintain profitability. Overall Economic Trends . The industry in which we operate is cyclical. Consequently, our net revenue is affected by general economic conditions including conditions that affect the housing market and economic factors including the health and volatility of the stock market. We target consumers of high-end home furnishings. As a result, we believe that our sales are sensitive to a number of macroeconomic factors that influence consumer spending generally, and that our sales are particularly affected by the health of the higher end consumer and demand levels from that consumer demographic. While the overall home furnishings market may be influenced by factors such as employment levels, interest rates, new household formation and the affordability of homes for first time home buyer s, the higher end of the housing market may be disproportionately influenced by 46 other factors, including stock market prices, t he number of second and third h omes being purchased and sold, tax policies, interest rates, and perceived capital appreciation prospects in higher end real estate. Shifts in consumption patterns may continue to have an impact on consumer spending in the U.S. premium home furnishings market. In the past, we have experienced volatility in our sales trends related to many of these factors and believe our sales may be impacted by these economic factors in future periods. Housing Market and Housing Turnover . Our business depends on consumer demand for our products and is therefore sensitive to a number of factors that influence consumer spending, including, among other things, housing prices, new construction, other activity in the housing sector, the state of the mortgage industry and other aspects of consumer credit tied to housing, including the availability and pricing of mortgage refinancing and home equity lines of credit. In particular, periods of increased or decreased home purchases may lead to increased or decreased consumer spending on home furnishings. Our Strategic Initiatives. We are in the process of implementing a number of business initiatives that have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our results of operations. These initiatives include expanding our Showroom footprint, enhancing our digital marketing capabilities and eCommerce platform, optimizing our product assortment and expanding our supply chain infrastructure. As a result of the number of current business initiatives we are pursuing, we have experienced in the past, and may experience in the future, significant period-to-period variability in our financial performance and results of operations. While we anticipate that these initiatives will support the growth of our business, costs and timing issues associated with pursuing these initiatives can negatively affect our growth rates in the near term and may amplify fluctuations in our growth rates from quarter to quarter. Our Ability to Source and Distribute Products Effectively . Our net revenue and gross margin are affected by our ability to purchase merchandise in sufficient quantities at competitive prices. Our level of net revenue has been adversely affected in prior periods by supply chain constraints, including the inability of our vendors to produce or ship sufficient quantities of some merchandise to match market demand from our clients, leading to higher levels of client backlog. See Effects of COVID-19 on Our Business. Consumer Preferences and Demand . Our ability to maintain our appeal with existing clients and to attract new clients depends on our ability to design, develop and offer a compelling product assortment responsive to client preferences and design trends. If we misjudge the market for our products or the product lines that we acquire, we may be faced with excess inventories for some products and may be required to become more promotional in our selling activities, which would impact our net revenue and gross margin. Seasonality in Quarterly Results . Our quarterly results vary depending upon a variety of factors, including changes in our product offerings and the introduction of new merchandise assortments and categories, the opening of new retail locations, shifts in the timing of various events quarter over quarter including holidays and other events such as Showroom closures, catalog releases, promotional events and the extent of our realization of the costs and benefits of our numerous strategic initiatives, among other things. As a result of these factors, our working capital requirements and demands on our distribution and delivery network may fluctuate during the year. Unique factors in any given quarter may affect period-to-period comparisons among the quarters being compared, and the results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that we may achieve for a full year. For example, our large catalogs in January and September may drive higher demand in those two months than in other months in the year. Variable expenses related to demand will also be higher in those months. Net revenue related to demand is recorded in later months, depending on when the client obtains control of the merchandise. Working capital needed to finance our operations typically reaches the highest levels when we increase our inventory in preparation for new product launches and to fulfill demand driven by catalog releases. Effects of COVID-19 on Our Business The COVID-19 outbreak in the first quarter of 2020 caused disruption to our business operations. In our initial response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we undertook immediate adjustments to our business operations including temporarily closing all retail locations, furloughing employees, minimizing expenses and delaying investments, and pausing some inventory orders while we assessed the impact to our business. Our approach to the pandemic evolved quickly and business trends substantially improved during the second through fourth quarters of 2020, as a result of both the reopening of our Showrooms and strong consumer demand for our products. We reopened all of our Showrooms and Outlet stores by June 30, 2020. While we have been able to serve our clients and operate our business through the COVID-19 pandemic, there can be no assurance that future events will not have an impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition since the extent and duration of the pandemic remains uncertain. Future adverse developments in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic, 47 including additional waves or resurgences of COVID-19 outbreaks, new strains or variants of the virus, evolving international, federal, state and local restrictions and safety regulations in response to COVID-19 risks, changes in consumer behavior and health concerns, the pace of economic activity in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, or other similar issues could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition in the future, or our financial results and business performance in future periods. Various constraints in our merchandise supply chain have resulted in delays in our ability to convert demand into net revenue at normal historical rates. We expect that our supply chain may catch up to demand in the foreseeable future, but business circumstances and operational conditions cannot be predicted with certainty. Depending on the future course of the pandemic and further outbreaks, we may experience further restrictions and closures of our Showrooms and Outlet stores. Although we experienced strong demand for our products, some of the demand may have been driven by consumers reinvesting in their homes and furnishings as they spent more time at home due to the pandemic. The exact impact that COVID-19 will have on future consumer behavior and related demand for our products cannot be predicted with certainty. How We Assess the Performance of Our Business In addition to U.S. GAAP results, this 10-K contains references to the non-GAAP financial measures below. We use these non-GAAP measures to help assess the performance of our business, identify trends affecting our business, formulate business plans and make strategic decisions. In addition to our results determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, we believe that providing these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to our investors as they present an informative supplemental view of our results from period-to-period by removing the effect of non-recurring items. The non-GAAP financial measures presented herein are specific to us and may not be comparable to similar measures disclosed by other companies because of differing methods used by other companies in calculating them. These measures are also not intended to be measures of free cash flow for management discretionary use, as they do not reflect tax payments, debt service requirements and certain other cash costs that may recur in the future, including, among other things, cash requirements for working capital needs. Management compensates for these limitations by relying on our U.S. GAAP results in addition to using these non-GAAP financial measures. The non-GAAP financial measures should not be construed as an inference that our future results will be unaffected by unusual or non-recurring items. We consider the following financial and operating measures that affect our results of operations: Net Revenue and Demand . Net revenue is recognized when a client obtains control of the merchandise. We also track demand in our business which is a key performance indicator linked to the level of client orders placed. Demand is an operating metric that we use to measure the dollar value of orders (based on purchase price) at the time the order is placed, net of the dollar value of cancellations and returns (based on unpaid purchase price and amount credited to client). These orders are recognized as net revenue when a client obtains control of the merchandise. Because demand is measured net of cancellations, all demand will eventually become net revenue, with appropriate reserves, when delivered to the client. Comparable Growth . Comparable growth is the year-over-year percentage change of the dollar value of orders delivered (based on purchase price), net of the dollar value of returns (based on amount credited to client), from comparable Showrooms and eCommerce, including through our catalogs and other mailings. This metric is a key performance indicator used by management to evaluate Showroom performance for locations that have been opened for at least 15 consecutive months, which enables management to view the performance of those Showrooms without the dollar value of orders delivered for new Showrooms being included. Comparable Showrooms are defined as permanent Showrooms open for at least 15 consecutive months, including relocations in the same market. Showrooms record demand immediately upon opening, while orders delivered take additional time because product must be delivered to the client. Comparable Showrooms that were temporarily closed during portions of 2021 were not excluded from the comparable Showroom calculation. The dollar value of orders delivered for Outlet comparable locations is included. Demand Comparable Growth . Demand comparable growth is the year-over-year percentage change of demand from our comparable Showrooms and eCommerce, including through our direct-mail catalog. This metric is a key performance indicator used by management to evaluate Showroom demand performance for locations that have been opened for at least 13 consecutive months, which enables management to view the performance of those Showrooms without new Showroom demand included. For demand purposes, comparable Showrooms are defined as permanent Showrooms open for at least 13 consecutive months, including relocations in the same market. Comparable Showrooms that were temporarily closed during portions of 2021 were not excluded from the comparable Showroom calculation. Outlet comparable location demand is included. 48 Demand comparable growth provides insight into business levels in a particular period by comparing the dollar value of orders (based on purchase price) placed in that period to the prior comparable period. Although these orders do not result in net revenue until the order is delivered at a later point in time, management utilizes this metric to evaluate core performance. Comparable growth is an additional measure that management utilizes to compare the dollar value of orders delivered (based on purchase price) in a period compared to the prior comparable period. Since delivery generally coincides with recognition of net revenue, with appropriate reserves, comparable growth trends will more closely track trends in reported net revenue than demand comparable growth trends. While increases or decreases in demand comparable growth will translate into increases or decreases in comparable growth over time, the trends do not necessarily correlate in any particular period. This is partially due to the general lag in time between when an order is placed and when an order is delivered. When the time gap from order to delivery increases, due to supply chain challenges for example, it may take longer for comparable growth to reflect demand comparable growth. Notwithstanding these limitations, management considers it useful to assess both measures together to get a more complete picture of overall performance trends, and believes these measures can be useful to investors for the same purpose, when viewed together with our reported results and other metrics. Showroom Data. As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, we operated the following: December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 Traditional 72 71 Design Studios 6 5 Outlet 3 3 Total Showrooms 81 79 Total Square Footage (in thousands) 1,308 1,288 Showrooms with in-home designers 65 58 States where we operate 29 28 Gross Margin. Gross margin is equal to our net revenue less cost of goods sold. Cost of goods sold includes the direct cost of purchased merchandise, inventory shrinkage, inbound freight, all freight costs to get merchandise to our Showrooms, credit card fees, design, buying and allocation costs, our supply chain, such as product development and sourcing, occupancy costs related to Showroom operations, such as rent and common area maintenance for our leases, depreciation and amortization of leasehold improvements, equipment and other assets in our Showrooms. In addition, cost of goods sold includes all logistics costs associated with shipping product to our clients, partially offset by delivery fees collected from clients (recorded in net revenue on the consolidated statements of comprehensive income). Sellin g, General and Administrative Expenses. Selling, general and administrative, or SG&A, expenses include all operating costs not included in cost of goods sold. These expenses include payroll and payroll related expenses, Showroom expenses other than occupancy and expenses related to many of our operations at our distribution centers and corporate headquarters, including marketing, information technology, legal, human resources, utilities and depreciation and amortization expense. Payroll includes both fixed compensation and variable compensation. Variable compensation includes Showroom commissions and Showroom bonus compensation related to demand, likely before the client obtains control of the merchandise. Variable compensation is not significant in our eCommerce channel. All new Showroom opening expenses, other than occupancy, are included in SG&A expenses and are expensed as incurred. We expect certain of these expenses to continue to increase as we open new Showrooms, develop new product categories and otherwise pursue our curren t business initiatives. SG&A expenses as a percentage of net revenue are usually higher in lower-volume quarters and lower in higher-volume quarters because a significant portion of the costs are relatively fixed. EBITDA. We define EBITDA as consolidated net income before depreciation and amortization, interest expense, net and income tax expense (benefit). Adjusted EBITDA. We believe that adjusted EBITDA is a useful measure of operating performance as the adjustments eliminate items that we believe are not reflective of underlying operating performance in a particular period. Adjusted EBITDA facilitates a comparison of our operating performance on a consistent basis from period-to-period and provides for a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business. Because adjusted EBITDA omits certain non-cash items and items that we believe are not reflective of underlying operating performance in a particular period, we feel that it is less susceptible to variances in actual performance resulting from 49 depreciation, amortization and other non-cash charges and can be more reflective of our operating performance in a particular period. We also use adjusted EBITDA as a method for planning and forecasting overall expected performance and for evaluating, on a quarterly and annual basis, actual results against such expectations. The following is a reconciliation of our net income to adjusted EBITDA for the periods presented: Year Ended (In thousands) 2022 2021 Net income $ 136,634 $ 36,932 Interest expense, net 3,387 5,432 Income tax expense (benefit) 45,944 (10,144) Depreciation and amortization 24,901 23,922 EBITDA 210,866 56,142 Equity based compensation (1) 4,288 9,147 Loss on extinguishment of debt 1,450 Derivative expense (2) 44,544 Other expenses (3) 7,382 11,609 Adjusted EBITDA $ 222,536 $ 122,892 (1) Equity based compensation represents compensation expense for equity awards provided to employees and compensation expense related to John Reed one-time transfer of Class A Common stock to certain long-tenured employees in 2021. Refer to Notes 8 Mezzanine Equity and Stockholders /Members Equity (Deficit) and 9 Equity Based Compensation for additional discussion of each expense. (2) We repaid a term loan from a prior credit facility ( Term Loan ) in full on December 28, 2020. The derivative expense relates to the change in the fair value of the exit fee at the end of each reporting period. See Note 5 Long-Term Debt for additional discussion of the exit fee. (3) Other expenses represent costs and investments not indicative of ongoing business performance, such as third-party consulting costs, one-time project start-up costs, one-time costs related to the Reorganization and IPO, severance, signing bonuses, recruiting and project-based strategic initiatives. For the year ended December 31, 2022, these other expenses consisted largely of $5.0 million of costs related to the opening and set-up of our Dallas distribution center and $1.6 million of severance, signing bonuses and recruiting costs. For the year ended December 31, 2021, these other expenses consisted primarily of $9.7 million of costs related to the Reorganization and IPO and $2.1 million of severance, signing bonuses and recruiting costs. Factors Affecting the Comparability of our Results of Operations Our results over the past two years have been affected by the following events, which must be understood in order to assess the comparability of our period-to-period financial performance and condition. Showroom Openings and Closings New Showrooms contribute incremental expense, new Showroom opening expense and net revenue to the Company. From January 1, 2021 to December 31, 2022 , we successfully opened or relocated 14 new Showrooms in 14 markets, including 10 new markets. Our recent Showroom growth is summarized in the following table: December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 Showrooms open at beginning of period 79 74 Showrooms opened (1) 4 10 Showrooms closed for relocations (1) (3) Showrooms closed permanently (1) (2) Showrooms open at end of period 81 79 (1) Showrooms opened during the respective periods includes both new and relocated Showrooms. Financing Transactions The Company Term Loan had an exit fee clause which allowed the holder of the Term Loan to receive either $3.0 million upon repayment of the Term Loan or a payout equivalent to 4.0% of the total equity value of the Company. The 4.0% of the total equity value of the Company payout was payable upon a change of control, qualified IPO or sale of all or substantially all assets of the Company. In connection with the repayment of the Term Loan on December 28, 2020, the holder informed the Company it would decline the option to receive the $3.0 million and elect to receive a payout equivalent to 4.0% of the equity value. The exit fee was treated as a derivative and adjusted to fair value each reporting period. In connection with the 50 Company IPO the fair value of the exit fee was determined to be $64.1 million and was paid by the Company in November 2021, using proceeds from the IPO. The Company recorded $44.5 million and $17.9 million of derivative expense for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively in selling, general and administrative expenses within the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Incremental Public Company Costs As a result of the IPO and Reorganization in November 2021, the Company incurred one-time costs of $9.7 million included within the SG&A expenses line item on the consolidated statements of comprehensive income for the year ended December 31, 2021. The Company expects to incur additional costs in future years in order to comply with public company requirements including incremental insurance, accounting and legal expense as well as costs required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Results of Operations The following tables summarize key components of our results of operations for the periods indicated and should be read together with our consolidated financial statements and related notes. Statement of Consolidated Comprehensive Income Data: Year Ended (In thousands) 2022 2021 Net revenue $ 1,228,928 $ 796,922 Cost of goods sold 703,869 466,989 Gross margin 525,059 329,933 Selling, general and administrative expenses 340,388 296,117 Loss on disposal of assets 466 Income from operations 184,671 33,350 Interest expense, net 3,387 5,432 Loss on extinguishment of debt 1,450 Other income (1,294) (320) Income before taxes 182,578 26,788 Income tax expense (benefit) 45,944 (10,144) Net and comprehensive income $ 136,634 $ 36,932 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest 15,815 Net and comprehensive income attributable to Company $ 136,634 $ 21,117 Other Operational Data: Year Ended (Dollars in thousands) 2022 2021 Net revenue $ 1,228,928 $ 796,922 Comparable growth 51.6 % 51.0 % Demand comparable growth 13.8 % 45.3 % Gross margin as a % of net revenue 42.7 % 41.4 % Selling, general and administrative expenses as a % of net revenue 27.7 % 37.2 % Income from operations as a % of net revenue 15.0 % 4.2 % Net and comprehensive income $ 136,634 $ 36,932 Net and comprehensive income as a % of net revenue 11.1 % 4.6 % Adjusted EBITDA (1) $ 222,536 $ 122,892 Adjusted EBITDA as a % of net revenue 18.1 % 15.4 % Total Showrooms at end of period 81 79 (1) See How We Assess the Performance of Our Business for a definition of adjusted EBITDA and a reconciliatio n of adjusted EBITDA to net income. 51 Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021 Net Revenue Net revenue increased $432.0 million, or 54.2%, to $1,228.9 million in 2022 compared to $796.9 million in 2021. The increase in net revenue was driven by increased demand for our product in our Retail and eCommerce sales channels, as well as elements of our supply chain continuing to catch up with client demand. Comparable growth was 51.6% in 2022 compared to 51.0% in 2021. Demand comparable growth was 13.8% in 2022 compared to 45.3% in 2021. Demand comparable growth for the year ended December 31, 2021 was positively impacted as compared to the prior year because of Showroom closures in 2020 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Gross Margin Gross margin increased $195.1 million, or 59.1%, to $525.1 million in 2022 compared to $329.9 million in 2021. Gross margin improvement was driven by the increase in net revenue, partially offset by increased variable expense related to the higher revenue, including $151.5 million of higher product costs, $51.2 million of increased transportation costs and $17.4 million of increased variable rent expense, in addition to $8.2 million of higher credit card fees related to higher demand and $5.3 million of increased fixed Showroom costs during these time periods. As a percentage of net revenue, gross margin increased 130 basis points to 42.7% of net revenue in 2022 compared to 41.4% of net revenue in 2021. The gross margin increase as a percentage of net revenue was primarily the result of leverage on fixed Showroom costs over higher net revenue and favorable product costs, contributing 230 and 50 basis points to the gross margin improvement, respectively . This was partially offset by higher variable Showroom costs and transportation costs, which together increased 200 basis points as a percentage of revenue. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses SG&A expenses increased $44.3 million, or 15.0%, to $340.4 million in 2022 compared to $296.1 million in 2021. The increase in SG&A expenses was primarily driven by a $38.8 million increase in warehouse expenses, a $38.3 million increase in corporate expenses to support the growth of the business, a $10.7 million increase in selling expenses primarily related to new showrooms and higher demand and a $9.5 million increase in new public company costs. This was partially offset by the non-recurrence of the derivative expense in the prior year related to the change in the fair value of the Term Loan exit fee of $44.5 million and $9.7 million of one-time costs related to the IPO. As a percentage of net revenue, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 950 basis points to 27.7% of net revenue in 2022 compared to 37.2% of net revenue in 2021. Interest Expense, net Interest expense decreased $2.0 million to $3.4 million in 2022 compared to $5.4 million in 2021. The decrease was driven by interest income earned on money market fund investments of $1.9 million. Income Taxes Income tax expense was $45.9 million in 2022 compared to an income tax benefit of $10.1 million in 2021. Prior to the Reorganization, the Company was a limited liability company under the Internal Revenue Code that had elected to be taxed as a partnership and did not pay federal or most st ate corporate income taxes on its taxable income, but rather its members were liable for their respective portions of the taxable income (loss) of Arhaus, LLC. Income taxes included state and local tax expense related to certain jurisdictions prior to the Reorganization and the income tax benefit as a result of the Reorganization. Subsequent to the Reorganization, Arhaus, LLC taxable income flows through to FS Arhaus and Homeworks who are subject to U.S. federal and state corporate income taxes. Net and Comprehensive Income Net income increased $99.7 million to $136.6 million in 2022 compared to $36.9 million in 2021. The increase was driven by the factors described above. 52 Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity Outlook Our primary cash needs have historically been for merchandise inventories, payroll, marketing catalogs, Showroom rent, capital expenditures associated with opening new Showrooms and updating existing Showrooms, as well as the development of our infrastructure and information technology. We seek out and evaluate opportunities for effectively managing and deploying capital in ways that improve working capital and support and enhance our business initiatives and strategies. As of December 31, 2022 , we had cash and cash equivalents of $145.2 million. In 2021, the Company entered into a revolving credit facility (the 2021 Credit Facility ). The 2021 Credit Facility provides for, among other things, (1) a revolving credit facility, in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the amount of such lender commitment, (2) a letter of credit commitment, in an amount equal to the lesser of (a) $10.0 million, and (b) the amount of the revolving credit facility as of such date, and (3) a swingline loan, in an amount equal to the lesser of (a) $5.0 million, and (b) the amount of the revolving credit facility as of such date. The aggregate amount of all commitments of all lenders under the 2021 Credit Facility was initially $50.0 million. The 2021 Credit Facility contains restrictive covenants and has certain financial covenants, including a minimum rent-adjusted total leverage ratio and minimum fixed charge ratio. The 2021 Credit Facility bears variable interest rates at the prevailing Bloomberg Short-Term Bank Yield index rate plus the applicable margin (1.50% at December 31, 2022), whereas the applicable margin is adjusted quarterly based on the Company consolidated rent-adjusted total leverage ratio. On December 9, 2022, the Company amended the 2021 Credit Facility to increase the revolving credit commitment thereunder by $25.0 million. After giving effect to such increase, the aggregate amount of all commitments under the 2021 Credit Facility is $75.0 million. At December 31, 2022, we had no borrowings on the 2021 Credit Facility. For the year ended December 31, 2022, our principal sources of liquidity were cash flows from operations. We believe our operating cash flows will be sufficient to meet working capital requirements and fulfill other capital needs for at least the next 12 months, although we may enter into borrowing arrangements in the future. While we do not require debt to fund our operations, our goal continues to be to position the Company to take advantage of the many opportunities that we may identify in connection with our business and operations. We have pursued in the past, and may pursue in the future, additional strategies to generate capital to pursue opportunities and investments, including new debt financing arrangements. In addition to funding the normal operations of our business, we have used our liquidity to fund investments and strategies such as supply chain expansion and growth initiatives. In addition, our needs and uses of capital may change in the future due to changes in our business or new opportunities that we choose to pursue. Capital Expenditures Historically, we have invested significant capital expenditures in opening new Showrooms and in 2022, our distribution center footprint expansion was a focus of our capital expenditures. While our capital expenditures vary year to year, they have increased in the past and may continue to increase in future periods as our distribution centers become fully operational and we open additional Showrooms. Our capital expenditures include expenditures related to investing activities and outflows of capital related to construction activities to design and build landlord-owned leased assets, net of tenant allowances received. Certain lease arrangements require the landlord to fund a portion of the construction related costs through payments directly to us. New Showrooms may require different levels of capital investment on our part in the future. In addition, we continue to address the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business with respect to real estate development and the introduction of new Showrooms. A range of factors included in the development of new Showrooms may continue to be affected by the COVID-19 pandemic including delays in construction, permitting and other necessary governmental actions. In addition, the scope and cadence of investments by third parties, including landlords and other real estate counterparties, may be adversely affected by the health crisis. Actions taken by federal, state and local government authorities, and in some instances mall and shopping center owners, in response to the pandemic may require changes to our real estate strategy and related capital expenditures. In addition, we may be required to make lease payments in whole or in part for our Showrooms in the event that they are required to close in the future due to resurgences in COVID-19 outbreaks or for other reasons. Any efforts to mitigate the costs of construction delays and deferrals, retail closures and other operational difficulties, including any such difficulties resulting from COVID-19, such as by negotiating with landlords and other third parties regarding the timing and amount of payments under existing contractual arrangements, may not be successful, and as a result, our real estate strategy may have significant ongoing liquidity needs even as we make changes to our planned operations and expansion cadence. 53 Cash Flow Analysis The following table provides a summary of our cash provided by operating, investing and financing activities: Year Ended (In thousands) 2022 2021 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 74,454 $ 146,243 Net cash used in investing activities (52,658) (47,870) Net cash used in financing activities (177) (31,467) Net increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash equivalents $ 21,619 $ 66,906 Net cash provided by operating activities Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021 Operating activities consist primarily of net income adjusted for non-cash items including depreciation and amortization, operating lease amortization, deferred income taxes, equity based compensation and the effect of changes in working capital and other activities. For 2022, net cash provided by operating activities was $74.5 million and consisted of net income of $136.6 million and an increase in non-cash items of $80.4 million, which were partially offset by a change in working capital and other activities of $142.5 million. The use of cash from working capital was primarily driven by an increase in merchandise inventory of $78.1 million, a decrease in client deposits of $62.3 million primarily due to improved delivery of our backlog orders and lower demand comparable growth in 2022, a decrease in operating lease liabilities of $33.7 million primarily due to payments made under the related lease agreements, an increase in accrued expenses of $27.7 million, an increase in accounts payable of $14.0 million and an increase in prepaid and other currents assets of $9.3 million. For 2021, net cash provided by operating activities was $146.2 million and consisted of net income of $36.9 million, an increase in non-cash items of $62.2 million and an increase in working capital and other activities of $47.1 million. The cash provided by working capital was primarily driven by an increase in client deposits of $110.8 million primarily driven by higher demand comparable growth in 2021, an increase in merchandise inventory of $100.3 million, an increase in accounts payable of $17.6 million and an increase in accrued expenses $17.3 million. Net cash used in investing activities Investing activities consist primarily of capital expenditures related to investments in retail Showrooms, supply chain investments as well as information technology and systems infrastructure upgrades. Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021 For 2022 , net cash used in investing activities was $52.7 million primarily due to investments in supply chain expansion, Showrooms and information technology and systems infrastructure. For 2021 , net cash used in investing activities was $47.9 million primarily due to investments in Showrooms, information technology and systems infrastructure, supply chain expansion and an airplane purchase. Historical capital expenditures are summarized as follows: Year Ended (In thousands) 2022 2021 Net cash used in investing activities $ 52,658 $ 47,870 Less: Landlord contributions 16,159 18,052 Total capital expenditures, net of landlord contributions $ 36,499 $ 29,818 54 Total company fund ed capital expenditures increased by $6.7 million in 2022 compared to 2021. This increase was primarily related to our new facilities in Texas and North Carolina, our expansion of our Boston Heights distribution center, the opening of new Showrooms and information technology and systems infrastructure upgrades. Net cash used in financing activities Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021 For 2022, net cash used in financing activities was $0.2 million, which represents principal payments under finance leases. For 2021, net cash used in financing activities was $31.5 million. The Company paid a pre-IPO dividend and tax distributions to noncontrolling interest holders of Arhaus, LLC of $50.7 million and $7.9 million, respectively and $61.9 million of distributions to shareholders of Homeworks Holdings, Inc. Further, in connection with the IPO the Company made a $64.1 million Term Loan exit fee payment. This was offset by the proceeds of $151.4 million, net of underwriting discounts and commissions of $10.4 million and offering expenses of $5.9 million, from the Company IPO on November 4, 2021. Off-Balance Sheet Transactions Our liquidity is currently not dependent on the use of off-balance sheet transactions other than letters of credit, which are typical in a retail environment. We have no material off-balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2022 . Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States which requires that certain estimates and assumptions be made that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and related notes, as well as the related disclosures. We evaluate our accounting policies, estimates, and judgments on an on-going basis. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions and such differences could be material to the consolidated financial statements. Information on all of our significant accounting policies can be found in Note 2 Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in our consolidated financial statements. The following critical accounting policies reflect the significant estimates and/or judgments used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Goodwill The recoverability of goodwill is evaluated annually (in the fourth quarter) or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. The Company impairment evaluation of goodwill consists of a qualitative assessment to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of its single reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. The Company qualitative assessment considers factors including changes in the macroeconomic, industry and market conditions, cost factors, a sustained share price or market capitalization decrease, and any reporting unit specific events. If this qualitative assessment indicates it is more likely than not that the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, no further analysis is required and goodwill is not impaired. Otherwise, we compare the estimated fair value of the asset to its carrying amount with an impairment loss recognized for the amount, if any, by which carrying value exceeds estimated fair value. When the Company performs the quantitative test for goodwill, fair values are determined using an equally weighted combination of the discounted cash flow approach ( income approach ) and the guideline public company method ( market approach ). This approach requires the use of significant estimates and assumption including forecasted future cash flows, long-term future growth rates and discount rates. Estimating the fair value of reporting units requires the use of estimates and significant judgments that are based on a number of factors including actual operating results. It is reasonably possible that the judgments and estimates described above could change in future periods. Long Lived Assets The Company evaluates long-lived assets, such as property, furniture and equipment and lease right-of-use assets, or asset groups for impairment whenever events or change in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of those assets may not be recoverable. Circumstances that may indicate impairment include changes in the assets or asset groups expected use, physical condition, market price, cash flow generation, significant adverse legal events, and any asset or asset group specific events. When such events or circumstances are present, we assess the recoverability of long-lived assets by determining whether the 55 carrying value will be recovered through the expected undiscounted future cash flows resulting from the use of the asset. If the sum of the estimated undiscounted future cash flows over the remaining life of the asset are less than the carrying value, the Company will recognize an impairment charge equal to the difference between the carrying value and the fair value, usually determined by the estimated discounted future cash flows associated with the asset. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements regarding the impact or potential impact of recent accounting pronouncements. Emerging Growth Company Status The Company is an emerging growth company, as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 ( JOBS Act ). Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards issued subsequent to the enactment of the JOBS Act, until such time as those standards apply to private companies. The Company has elected to use this extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards that have different effective dates for public and private companies until the earlier of the date that it (i) is no longer an emerging growth company or (ii) affirmatively and irrevocably opts out of the extended transition period provided in the JOBS Act. As a result, these consolidated financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with the new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. 
