CIK: 7536
Company Name: ARROW ELECTRONICS INC
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2011-02-02
Accession Number: 0001144204-11-005380


Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . Overview The company is a global provider of products, services, and solutions to industrial and commercial users of electronic components and enterprise computing solutions. The company provides one of the broadest product offerings in the electronic components and enterprise computing solutions distribution industries and a wide range of value-added services to help customers reduce time to market, introduce innovative products through demand creation opportunities, lower their total cost of ownership, and enhance their overall competitiveness. The company has two business segments, the global components business segment and the global ECS business segment. The company distributes electronic components to OEMs and CMs through its global components business segment and provides enterprise computing solutions to VARs through its global ECS business segment. For 2010, approximately 70% of the company's sales were from the global components business segment, and approximately 30% of the company's sales were from the global ECS business segment. The company's financial objectives are to grow sales faster than the market, increase the markets served, grow profits faster than sales, and increase return on invested capital. To achieve its objectives, the company seeks to capture significant opportunities to grow across products, markets, and geographies. To supplement its organic growth strategy, the company continually evaluates strategic acquisitions to broaden its product offerings, increase its market penetration, and/or expand its geographic reach. Cash flow needed to fund this growth is primarily expected to be generated through continuous corporate-wide initiatives to improve profitability and increase effective asset utilization. On December 16, 2010, the company acquired all of the assets and operations of Intechra for a purchase price of $101.1 million, which included cash acquired of $.1 million and is subject to a final working capital adjustment. On September 8, 2010, the company acquired Shared for a purchase price of $252.8 million, which included debt paid at closing of $61.9 million. On June 1, 2010, the company acquired Converge for a purchase price of $138.4 million, which included cash acquired of $4.8 million and debt paid at closing of $27.5 million. On December 20, 2009, the company acquired Petsche for a purchase price of $174.1 million, which included cash acquired of $4.0 million. On June 2, 2008, the company acquired LOGIX, a subsidiary of Groupe OPEN for a purchase price of $252.6 million, which includes assumption of debt and acquisition costs. Results of operations of Intechra, Shared, Converge, Petsche, and LOGIX were included in the company's consolidated results from their respective dates of acquisition. Results of operations of Intechra, Converge, and Petsche are included within the company's global components business segment and the results of operations of Shared and LOGIX are included within the company's global ECS business segment. In addition, the company acquired several other businesses as further discussed in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which did not have a material impact on the company consolidated financial position and results of operations. Consolidated sales for 2010 increased by 27.7%, compared with the year-earlier period, due to a 35.0% increase in the global components business segment sales and a 13.0% increase in the global ECS business segment sales. The translation of the company's international financial statements into U.S. dollars resulted in a reduction in consolidated sales of $127.1 million for 2010, compared with the year-earlier period, due to a stronger U.S. dollar. Excluding the impact of foreign currency and pro forma for acquisitions, the company's consolidated sales increased by 24.7% in 2010. Net income attributable to shareholders increased to $479.6 million in 2010, compared with net income attributable to shareholders of $123.5 million in the year-earlier period. The following items impacted the comparability of the company's results for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009: restructuring, integration, and other charges of $33.5 million ($24.6 million net of related taxes) in 2010 and $105.5 million ($75.7 million net of related taxes) in 2009; a loss on prepayment of debt of $1.6 million ($1.0 million net of related taxes) in 2010 and $5.3 million ($3.2 million net of related taxes) in 2009; and 26 a net reduction of the provision for income taxes of $9.4 million and a reduction in interest expense of $3.8 million ($2.3 million net of related taxes) primarily related to the settlement of certain income tax matters in 2010 covering multiple years. Excluding the above-mentioned items, the increase in net income attributable to shareholders for 2010 was primarily the result of the sales increases in both the global components business segment and the global ECS business segment, increased gross profit margins, reduced selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales due to the company's continuing efforts to streamline and simplify processes, and a lower effective income tax rate. This was offset, in part, by increased depreciation and amortization expense due primarily to increased acquisition activity. Substantially all of the company's sales are made on an order-by-order basis, rather than through long-term sales contracts. As such, the nature of the company's business does not provide for the visibility of material forward-looking information from its customers and suppliers beyond a few months. Sales Following is an analysis of net sales (in millions) by reportable segment for the years ended December 31: 2010 2009 % Change Global components $ 13,169 $ 9,751 35.0 % Global ECS 5,576 4,933 13.0 % Consolidated $ 18,745 $ 14,684 27.7 % Consolidated sales for 2010 increased by $4.06 billion, or 27.7%, compared with the year-earlier period. The increase was driven by an increase in the global components business segment of $3.42 billion, or 35.0%, and an increase in the global ECS business segment of $643.5 million, or 13.0%. The translation of the company's international financial statements into U.S. dollars resulted in a reduction in consolidated sales of $127.1 million for 2010, compared with the year-earlier period, due to a stronger U.S. dollar. Excluding the impact of foreign currency and pro forma for acquisitions, the company's consolidated sales increased by 24.7% in 2010. In the global components business segment, sales for 2010 increased primarily as a result of strengthening in the world's economies and to average lead times for components extending beyond traditional levels during part of 2010. Average lead times exiting 2010 are near normal levels. The growth in the global components business segment for 2010 was primarily driven by the sales increase in EMEA of 42.9%, the sales increase in the Americas of 34.2%, the sales increase in the Asia Pacific region of 18.4%, and, to a lesser extent, the impact of acquisitions. Excluding the impact of foreign currency and pro forma for acquisitions, the company's global components business segment sales increased by 30.9% in 2010. In the global ECS business segment, sales for 2010 increased primarily due to higher demand for products. The increase in sales for 2010 was due to growth in storage, software, services, and industry standard servers, offset, in part, by declines principally in proprietary servers. Excluding the impact of foreign currency and pro forma for acquisitions, the company's global ECS business segment sales increased by 12.1% in 2010. 27 Following is an analysis of net sales (in millions) by reportable segment for the years ended December 31: 2009 2008 % Change Global components $ 9,751 $ 11,319 (13.9 )% Global ECS 4,933 5,442 (9.3 )% Consolidated $ 14,684 $ 16,761 (12.4 )% Consolidated sales for 2009 declined by $2.08 billion, or 12.4%, compared with the year-earlier period. The decrease was driven by a decrease in the global components business segment of $1.57 billion, or 13.9%, and a decrease in the global ECS business segment of $508.7 million, or 9.3%. The translation of the company's international financial statements into U.S. dollars resulted in decreased sales of $350.7 million for 2009, compared with the year-earlier period, due to a stronger U.S. dollar. Excluding the impact of foreign currency and pro forma for acquisitions, the company's consolidated sales decreased by 11.6% in 2009. In the global components business segment, sales for 2009 decreased primarily due to weakness in the Americas and EMEA as a result of lower demand for products due to the worldwide economic recession and the impact of a stronger U.S. dollar on the translation of the company's international financial statements. The decrease in sales for 2009 was offset, in part, by strength in the Asia Pacific region. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, the company's global components business segment sales decreased by 11.4% in 2009. In the global ECS business segment, the decrease in sales for 2009 was primarily due to lower demand for products due to the worldwide economic recession and the impact of a stronger U.S. dollar on the translation of the company's international financial statements. The decrease in sales for 2009 was offset, in part, by the LOGIX acquisition. Excluding the impact of foreign currency and pro forma for acquisitions, the company's global ECS business segment sales decreased by 12.1% in 2009. Gross Profit The company recorded gross profit of $2.42 billion and $1.75 billion for 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in gross profit was primarily due to the 27.7% increase in sales during 2010. The gross profit margin for 2010 increased by approximately 100 basis points, compared with the year-earlier period, due primarily to a lessening of pricing pressure in the global components business segment and a change in geographic mix, with the Americas and EMEA components businesses being a larger percentage of the company's consolidated sales for 2010 as compared with the year-earlier period. The gross profit margin for the global ECS business segment was flat, as compared with the year-earlier period. The gross profit margins of products sold in the global components business segment are typically higher than the gross profit margins of products in the global ECS business segment and the gross profit margins of the components sold in the Americas and EMEA tend to be higher than the gross profit margins of products in the Asia Pacific region. The financial impact of the lower gross profit margins in the global ECS business segment and the Asia Pacific region were offset, in part, by the lower operating costs and lower working capital requirements in these businesses relative to the company other businesses. The company recorded gross profit of $1.75 billion and $2.28 billion for 2009 and 2008, respectively. The gross profit margin for 2009 decreased by approximately 170 basis points when compared with the year-earlier period. Approximately two-thirds of the decrease in gross profit percent was due to increased competitive pricing pressure in both the company's business segments, and the remaining one-third was due to a change in the mix in the company's business, with the global ECS business segment and Asia Pacific region being a greater percentage of total sales. The competitive pricing pressure experienced by the company during the first half of 2009 lessened in the second half of 2009. 28 Restructuring, Integration, and Other Charges 2010 Charges In 2010, the company recorded restructuring, integration, and other charges of $33.5 million ($24.6 million net of related taxes or $.21 per share on both a basic and diluted basis). Included in the restructuring, integration, and other charges for 2010 is a charge of $21.6 million, related to initiatives taken by the company to improve operating efficiencies. Also included in the restructuring, integration, and other charges for 2010 is a credit of $.6 million, related to restructuring and integration actions taken in prior periods and acquisition-related expenses of $12.4 million. The restructuring charge of $21.6 million in 2010 primarily includes personnel costs of $14.7 million and facilities costs of $2.3 million. The personnel costs are related to the elimination of approximately 180 positions within the global ECS business segment and approximately 100 positions within the global components business segment. The facilities costs are related to exit activities for 7 vacated facilities in the Americas and EMEA due to the company's continued efforts to streamline its operations and reduce real estate costs. These initiatives are due to the company's continued efforts to lower cost and drive operational efficiency. 2009 Charges In 2009, the company recorded restructuring, integration, and other charges of $105.5 million ($75.7 million net of related taxes or $.63 per share on both a basic and diluted basis). Included in the restructuring, integration, and other charges for 2009 is a restructuring charge of $100.3 million related to initiatives taken by the company to improve operating efficiencies. Also included in the restructuring, integration, and other charges for 2009 are charges of $1.4 million related to restructuring and integration actions taken in prior periods and acquisition-related expenses of $3.9 million. The restructuring charge of $100.3 million in 2009 primarily includes personnel costs of $90.9 million and facilities costs of $8.0 million. The personnel costs are related to the elimination of approximately 1,605 positions within the global components business segment and approximately 320 positions within the global ECS business segment. The facilities costs are related to exit activities for 28 vacated facilities worldwide due to the company's continued efforts to streamline its operations and reduce real estate costs. These initiatives are due to the company's continued efforts to lower cost and drive operational efficiency. 2008 Charges In 2008, the company recorded restructuring, integration, and other charges of $81.0 million ($61.9 million net of related taxes or $.51 per share on both a basic and diluted basis). Included in the restructuring, integration, and other charges for 2008 is a restructuring charge of $69.8 million related to initiatives taken by the company to improve operating efficiencies. Also included in the restructuring, integration, and other charges for 2008 is a current period integration charge of $.6 million, a credit of $.3 million related to restructuring and integration actions taken in prior periods, and a charge related to a preference claim from 2001 of $10.9 million. The restructuring charge of $69.8 million in 2008 primarily includes personnel costs of $39.4 million, facilities costs of $4.3 million, and a write-down of a building and related land of $25.4 million. These initiatives are the result of the company's continued efforts to lower cost and drive operational efficiency. The personnel costs are primarily associated with the elimination of approximately 750 positions across multiple functions and multiple locations. The facilities costs are related to the exit activities of 9 vacated facilities in the Americas and EMEA. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the company recorded an impairment charge of $25.4 million in connection with an approved plan to actively market and sell a building and related land in the United States within the company's global components business segment. The decision to exit this location was made to enable the company to consolidate facilities and reduce future operating costs. The company wrote-down the carrying values of the building and related land to their estimated fair values less cost to sell and ceased recording depreciation. 29 In 2008, an opinion was rendered in a bankruptcy proceeding (Bridge Information Systems, et. anno v. Merisel Americas, Inc. & MOCA) in favor of Bridge Information Systems ("Bridge"), the estate of a former global ECS customer that declared bankruptcy in 2001. The proceeding is related to sales made in 2000 and early 2001 by the MOCA division of ECS, a company Arrow purchased from Merisel Americas in the fourth quarter of 2000. The court held that certain of the payments received by the company at the time were preferential and must be returned to Bridge. Accordingly, during 2008, the company recorded a charge of $10.9 million in connection with the preference claim from 2001, including legal fees. Impairment Charge The company tests goodwill for impairment annually as of the first day of the fourth quarter, or more frequently if indicators of potential impairment exist. During the fourth quarter of 2008, as a result of significant declines in macroeconomic conditions, global equity valuations depreciated. Both factors impacted the company market capitalization, and the company determined it was necessary to perform an interim impairment test of its goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. Based upon the results of such testing, the company concluded that a portion of its goodwill was impaired and, as such, recognized a non-cash impairment charge of $1.02 billion ($905.1 million net of related taxes or $7.49 per share on both a basic and diluted basis) as of December 31, 2008, of which $716.9 million related to the company's global components business segment and $301.9 million related to the company's global ECS business segment. The impairment charge did not impact the company consolidated cash flows, liquidity, capital resources, and covenants under its existing revolving credit facility, asset securitization program, and other outstanding borrowings. Operating Income (Loss) The company recorded operating income of $750.8 million in 2010 as compared with operating income of $272.8 million in 2009. Included in operating income for 2010 and 2009 were the previously discussed restructuring, integration, and other charges of $33.5 million and $105.5 million, respectively. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $251.4 million, or 19.3%, in 2010, as compared with 2009, on a sales increase of 27.7%. The dollar increase in selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily due to higher selling, general and administrative expenses to support the increased sales, the reinstatement of certain employee-related costs that were temporarily suspended during the global economic downturn, and higher selling, general and administrative expenses as a result of acquisitions. These increases were offset, in part, by the impact of a stronger U.S. dollar on the translation of the company's international financial statements for 2010 compared with the year-earlier period. Selling, general and administrative expenses, as a percentage of sales for 2010 and 2009, decreased to 8.3% from 8.9%. This decrease was primarily due to the company's continuing efforts to streamline and simplify processes and the company's ability to better leverage its existing cost structure to manage the increased level of sales relative to the year-earlier period. Depreciation and amortization expense for 2010 increased by $10.3 million, or 15.4%, as compared with the year-earlier period, primarily due to acquisitions. Pro forma for acquisitions, operating expenses (which include both selling, general and administrative expenses and depreciation and amortization expense) increased 10.8% in 2010, as compared with 2009. The company recorded operating income of $272.8 million in 2009 as compared with an operating loss of $493.6 million in 2008. Included in operating income for 2009 was the previously discussed restructuring, integration, and other charges of $105.5 million. Included in the operating loss for 2008 was the previously discussed impairment charge associated with goodwill of $1.02 billion and restructuring, integration, and other charges of $81.0 million. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $301.7 million, or 18.8%, in 2009, as compared with 2008, on a sales decrease of 12.4%. The dollar decrease compared with the year-earlier period, was due to the company's continuing efforts to streamline and simplify processes and to reduce expenses in response to the decline in sales, as well as the impact of foreign exchange rates. This decrease was offset, in part, by expenses incurred by LOGIX, which was acquired in June 2008. Selling, general and administrative expenses, as a percentage of sales, was 8.9% and 9.6% for 2009 and 2008, respectively. 30 Loss on Prepayment of Debt During 2010, the company recognized a loss on prepayment of debt of $1.6 million ($1.0 million net of related taxes or $.01 per share on both a basic and diluted basis), related to a property the company sold and was required to repay the related collateralized debt with a face amount of $9.0 million. The loss on prepayment of debt was offset by a gain on the sale of this property of $1.7 million, which is included in restructuring, integration, and other charges in 2010. During 2009, the company recorded a loss on prepayment of debt of $5.3 million ($3.2 million net of related taxes or $.03 per share on both a basic and diluted basis), related to the repurchase of $130.5 million principal amount of its 9.15% senior notes due 2010. The loss on prepayment of debt includes the premium paid and write-off of the related deferred financing costs, offset by the gain for terminating the related interest rate swaps. Loss on Write-Down of an Investment During 2008, the company determined that an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value of its investment in Marubun Corporation occurred and, accordingly, recognized a loss of $10.0 million ($.08 per share on both a basic and diluted basis) on the write-down of this investment. Interest and Other Financing Expense, Net Net interest and other financing expense decreased by 8.1% in 2010 to $76.6 million, compared with $83.3 million in 2009, primarily due to lower interest rates on the company variable rate debt and a reduction in interest expense of $3.8 million ($2.3 million net of related taxes or $.02 per share on both a basic and diluted basis) primarily related to the settlement of certain income tax matters (discussed in "Income Taxes" below). Net interest and other financing expense decreased by 16.6% in 2009 to $83.3 million, compared with $99.9 million in 2008, primarily due to lower interest rates on the company variable rate debt and lower average debt outstanding. Income Taxes The company recorded a provision for income taxes of $199.4 million (an effective tax rate of 29.4%) for 2010. During the fourth quarter of 2010, the company recorded a net reduction of the provision of $9.4 million ($.08 per share on both a basic and diluted basis) primarily related to the settlement of certain tax matters covering multiple tax years. The company's provision and effective tax rate for 2010 were impacted by the previously discussed settlement of certain income tax matters, restructuring, integration, and other charges, and loss on the prepayment of debt. Excluding the impact of the above-mentioned items, the company's effective tax rate was 30.5% for 2010. The company recorded a provision for income taxes of $65.4 million (an effective tax rate of 34.6%) for 2009. The company's provision and effective tax rate for 2009 were impacted by the previously discussed restructuring, integration, and other charges and loss on the prepayment of debt. Excluding the impact of the above-mentioned items, the company's effective tax rate was 32.5% for 2009. The company recorded a provision for income taxes of $16.7 million (an effective tax rate of (2.8%)) for 2008. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the company recorded a reduction of the provision of $8.5 million ($.07 per share on both a basic and diluted basis) primarily related to the settlement of certain international tax matters covering multiple tax years. The company's provision and effective tax rate for 2008 were impacted by the previously discussed settlement of certain international income tax matters, impairment charge associated with goodwill, restructuring, integration, and other charges, and loss on the write-down of an investment. Excluding the impact of the above-mentioned items, the company's effective tax rate was 30.7% for 2008. 31 The company's provision for income taxes and effective tax rate are impacted by, among other factors, the statutory tax rates in the countries in which it operates and the related level of income generated by these operations. Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Shareholders The company recorded net income attributable to shareholders of $479.6 million for 2010, compared with net income attributable to shareholders of $123.5 million in the year-earlier period. Included in net income attributable to shareholders for 2010 was the previously discussed restructuring, integration, and other charges of $24.6 million, and loss on the prepayment of debt of $1.0 million, as well as a net reduction of the provision for income taxes of $9.4 million and a reduction of interest expense, net of related taxes, of $2.3 million primarily related to the settlement of certain income tax matters covering multiple years. Included in net income attributable to shareholders for 2009 was the previously discussed restructuring, integration, and other charges of $75.7 million and loss on the prepayment of debt of $3.2 million. Excluding the above-mentioned items, the increase in net income attributable to shareholders was primarily the result of the sales increases in both the global components business segment and the global ECS business segment, increased gross profit margins, reduced selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales due to the company's continuing efforts to streamline and simplify processes, and a lower effective income tax rate. This was offset, in part, by increased depreciation and amortization expense due primarily to increased acquisition activity. The company recorded net income attributable to shareholders of $123.5 million for 2009, compared with a net loss attributable to shareholders of $613.7 million in the year-earlier period. Included in net income attributable to shareholders for 2009 was the previously discussed restructuring, integration, and other charges of $75.7 million and loss on the prepayment of debt of $3.2 million. Included in the net loss attributable to shareholders for 2008 was the previously discussed impairment charge associated with goodwill of $905.1 million, restructuring, integration, and other charges of $61.9 million, and loss on the write-down of an investment of $10.0 million, as well as a reduction of the provision for income taxes of $8.5 million and an increase in interest expense, net of related taxes, of $1.0 million related to the settlement of certain international income tax matters covering multiple tax years. Excluding the above-mentioned items, the decrease in net income attributable to shareholders was primarily the result of the sales declines in the global ECS business segment and the more profitable global components businesses in the Americas and EMEA, as well as competitive pricing pressure impacting gross profit margins. These decreases were offset, in part, by a reduction in selling, general and administrative expenses due to the company continuing efforts to streamline and simplify processes and to reduce expenses in response to the decline in sales due to the worldwide economic recession, as well as a reduction in net interest and other financing expense. Liquidity and Capital Resources At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the company had cash and cash equivalents of $926.3 million and $1.14 billion, respectively. During 2010, the net amount of cash provided by the company's operating activities was $220.8 million, the net amount of cash used for investing activities was $682.4 million, and the net amount of cash provided by financing activities was $270.9 million. The effect of exchange rate changes on cash was a decrease of $20.0 million. During 2009, the net amount of cash provided by the company's operating activities was $849.9 million, the net amount of cash used for investing activities was $290.7 million, and the net amount of cash provided by financing activities was $113.7 million. The effect of exchange rate changes on cash was an increase of $12.9 million. During 2008, the net amount of cash provided by the company's operating activities was $619.8 million, the net amount of cash used for investing activities was $492.7 million, and the net amount of cash used for financing activities was $111.1 million. The effect of exchange rate changes on cash was a decrease of $12.5 million. 32 Cash Flows from Operating Activities The company maintains a significant investment in accounts receivable and inventories. As a percentage of total assets, accounts receivable and inventories were approximately 62.6% at December 31, 2010 and were approximately 58.4% at December 31, 2009. The net amount of cash provided by the company's operating activities during 2010 was $220.8 million and was primarily due to earnings from operations, adjusted for non-cash items, and an increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses offset, in part, by an increase in accounts receivable and inventories. The net amount of cash provided by the company's operating activities during 2009 was $849.9 million and was primarily due to earnings from operations, adjusted for non-cash items, a reduction in inventories, and an increase in accounts payable. This was offset, in part, by a decrease in accrued expenses. The net amount of cash provided by the company's operating activities during 2008 was $619.8 million and was primarily due to earnings from operations, adjusted for non-cash items, and a reduction in accounts receivable and inventories offset, in part, by a decrease in accounts payable. Working capital, as a percentage of sales, was 12.6%, 12.1%, and 13.4% in 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. Cash Flows from Investing Activities The net amount of cash used for investing activities during 2010 was $682.4 million, primarily reflecting $587.1 million of cash consideration paid for acquired businesses and $112.3 million for capital expenditures, offset, in part, by proceeds from the sale of properties of $17.0 million. Included in capital expenditures for 2010 is $58.0 million related to the company's global enterprise resource planning ("ERP") initiative. During 2010, the company acquired Verical, an e-commerce business geared towards meeting the end-of-life components and parts shortage needs of customers; Converge, a leading provider of reverse logistics services; Sphinx, a United Kingdom-based value-added distributor of security and networking products; Transim, a leading service provider of online component design and engineering solutions for technology manufacturers; Shared, a leading North American unified communications and managed services provider; ETG, a leading solid-state lighting distributor and value-added service provider; Diasa, a leading European value-added distributor of servers, storage, software, and networking products in Spain and Portugal; and Intechra, which provides fully customized information technology asset disposition services to many Fortune 1000 customers throughout the world, for aggregate cash consideration of $584.0 million. In addition the company made a payment of $3.1 million to increase its ownership interest in a majority-owned subsidiary. The net amount of cash used for investing activities during 2009 was $290.7 million, primarily reflecting $170.1 million of cash consideration paid for acquired businesses and $121.5 million for capital expenditures, offset, in part, by proceeds from the sale of properties of $1.2 million. Included in the capital expenditures is $82.3 million related to the company's global ERP initiative. During 2009, the company acquired Petsche, a leading provider of interconnect products, including specialty wire, cable, and harness management solutions, to the aerospace and defense markets for cash consideration of $170.1 million. The net amount of cash used for investing activities during 2008 was $492.7 million, primarily reflecting $333.5 million of cash consideration paid for acquired businesses and $158.7 million for capital expenditures. Included in capital expenditures is $113.4 million related to the company's global ERP initiative. 33 During 2008, the company acquired Hynetic, a components distribution business in India; ACI, a distributor of electronic components used in defense and aerospace applications; LOGIX, a leading value-added distributor of midrange servers, storage, and software; Achieva, a value-added distributor of semiconductors and electro-mechanical devices; Excel Tech, the sole Broadcom distributor in Korea; and Eteq Components, a Broadcom-based components distribution business in the ASEAN region and China, for aggregate cash consideration of $319.9 million. In addition, the company paid $13.6 million to increase its ownership interest in majority-owned subsidiaries. During 2006, the company initiated a global ERP effort to standardize processes worldwide and adopt best-in-class capabilities. Implementation is expected to be phased-in over the next several years. For 2011, the estimated cash flow impact of this initiative is expected to be in the $40 to $60 million range with the impact decreasing by approximately $10 million in 2012. The company expects to finance these costs with cash flows from operations. Cash Flows from Financing Activities The net amount of cash provided by financing activities during 2010 was $270.9 million. The primary sources of cash from financing activities were $494.3 million of net proceeds from a note offering, $9.8 million increase in short-term and other borrowings, $8.1 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options, and $1.9 million related to excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation arrangements. The primary use of cash for financing activities included $173.7 million of repurchases of common stock, and a $69.5 million repayment of the company's 9.15% senior notes. During 2010, the company completed the sale of $250.0 million principal amount of 3.375% notes due in 2015 and $250.0 million principal amount of 5.125% notes due in 2021. The net proceeds of the offering of $494.3 million were used for general corporate purposes. The net amount of cash provided by financing activities during 2009 was $113.7 million. The primary sources of cash from financing activities were $297.4 million of net proceeds from a note offering and $4.2 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options. The primary use of cash for financing activities for 2009 included $135.7 million of repurchases of senior notes, a $48.1 million decrease in short-term borrowings, $2.5 million of repurchases of common stock, and a $1.7 million shortfall in tax benefits from stock-based compensation arrangements. During 2009, the company repurchased $130.5 million principal amount of its 9.15% senior notes due 2010. The related loss on the repurchase, including the premium paid and write-off of the deferred financing costs, offset by the gain for terminating a portion of the interest rate swaps aggregated $5.3 million ($3.2 million net of related taxes or $.03 per share on both a basic and diluted basis) and was recognized as a loss on prepayment of debt. During 2010, the company repaid the remaining $69.5 million principal amount of its 9.15% senior notes upon maturity. During 2009, the company completed the sale of $300.0 million principal amount of 6.00% notes due in 2020. The net proceeds of the offering of $297.4 million were used to repay a portion of the previously discussed 9.15% senior notes due 2010 and for general corporate purposes. The net amount of cash used for financing activities during 2008 was $111.1 million, primarily reflecting $115.8 million of repurchases of common stock offset, in part, by $4.4 million of cash proceeds from the exercise of stock options. On September 23, 2009, the company filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC registering debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, and warrants of Arrow Electronics, Inc. that may be issued by the company from time to time. As set forth in the shelf registration statement, the net proceeds from the sale of the offered securities may be used by the company for general corporate purposes, including repayment of borrowings, working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and stock repurchases, or for such other purposes as may be specified in the applicable prospectus supplement. 34 The company has an $800.0 million revolving credit facility with a group of banks that matures in January 2012. Interest on borrowings under the revolving credit facility is calculated using a base rate or a euro currency rate plus a spread based on the company's credit ratings (.425% at December 31, 2010). The facility fee related to the revolving credit facility is ..125%. The company has a $600.0 million asset securitization program collateralized by accounts receivable of certain of its United States subsidiaries which expires in April 2012. Interest on borrowings is calculated using a base rate or a commercial paper rate plus a spread, which is based on the company's credit ratings (.50% at December 31, 2010). The facility fee is ..50%. The company had no outstanding borrowings under its revolving credit facility or asset securitization program at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Both programs include terms and conditions that limit the incurrence of additional borrowings, limit the company's ability to pay cash dividends or repurchase stock, and require that certain financial ratios be maintained at designated levels. The company was in compliance with all covenants as of December 31, 2010 and is currently not aware of any events that would cause non-compliance with any covenants in the future. Management believes that the company's current cash availability, its current borrowing capacity under its revolving credit facility and asset securitization program, its expected ability to generate future operating cash flows, and the company's access to capital markets are sufficient to meet its projected cash flow needs for the foreseeable future. The company continually evaluates its liquidity requirements and would seek to amend its existing borrowing capacity or access the financial markets as deemed necessary. Contractual Obligations Payments due under contractual obligations at December 31, 2010 is as follows (in thousands): Within 1 Year 1-3 Years 4-5 Years After 5 Years Total Debt $ 59,902 $ 565,943 $ 248,538 $ 945,326 $ 1,819,709 Interest on long-term debt 83,096 151,995 125,451 341,635 702,177 Capital leases 1,308 1,392 4 - 2,704 Operating leases 55,826 76,163 33,296 14,554 179,839 Purchase obligations (a) 3,197,700 19,393 1,959 102 3,219,154 Other (b) 17,758 14,856 7,707 206 40,527 $ 3,415,590 $ 829,742 $ 416,955 $ 1,301,823 $ 5,964,110 (a) Amounts represent an estimate of non-cancelable inventory purchase orders and other contractual obligations related to information technology and facilities as of December 31, 2010. Most of the company's inventory purchases are pursuant to authorized distributor agreements, which are typically cancelable by either party at any time or on short notice, usually within a few months. (b) Includes estimates of contributions required to meet the requirements of several defined benefit plans. Amounts are subject to change based upon the performance of plan assets, as well as the discount rate used to determine the obligation. The company does not anticipate having to make required contributions to the plans beyond 2016. Also included are amounts relating to personnel, facilities, customer termination, and certain other costs resulting from restructuring and integration activities. Under the terms of various joint venture agreements, the company is required to pay its pro-rata share of the third party debt of the joint ventures in the event that the joint ventures are unable to meet their obligations. At December 31, 2010, the company's pro-rata share of this debt was approximately $17.1 million. The company believes there is sufficient equity in the joint ventures to meet their obligations. 35 At December 31, 2010, the company had a liability for unrecognized tax benefits and a liability for the payment of related interest totaling $78.5 million, of which approximately $12.3 million is expected to be paid within one year. For the remaining liability, due to the uncertainties related to these tax matters, the company is unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate when cash settlement with a taxing authority will occur. Share-Repurchase Program In March 2010, the company announced its Board approved the repurchase of up to $100 million of the company's common stock through a share-repurchase program. In July 2010, the company's Board approved an additional repurchase of up to $100 million of the company's common stock. As of December 31, 2010, the company repurchased 6,074,600 shares under these plans with a market value of $167.3 million at the dates of repurchase. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The company has no off-balance sheet financing or unconsolidated special-purpose entities. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The company's consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires the company to make significant estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. The company evaluates its estimates on an ongoing basis. The company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed reasonable under the circumstances; the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The company believes the following critical accounting policies involve the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements: Revenue Recognition The company recognizes revenue when there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement, delivery has occurred or services are rendered, the sales price is determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. Revenue typically is recognized at time of shipment. Sales are recorded net of discounts, rebates, and returns, which historically have not been material. A portion of the company's business involves shipments directly from its suppliers to its customers. In these transactions, the company is responsible for negotiating price both with the supplier and customer, payment to the supplier, establishing payment terms with the customer, product returns, and has risk of loss if the customer does not make payment. As the principal with the customer, the company recognizes the sale and cost of sale of the product upon receiving notification from the supplier that the product was shipped. The company has certain business with select customers and suppliers that is accounted for on an agency basis (that is, the company recognizes the fees associated with serving as an agent in sales with no associated cost of sales) in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 605-45-45. Generally, these transactions relate to the sale of supplier service contracts to customers where the company has no future obligation to perform under these contracts or the rendering of logistics services for the delivery of inventory for which the company does not assume the risks and rewards of ownership. 36 Accounts Receivable The company maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. The allowances for doubtful accounts are determined using a combination of factors, including the length of time the receivables are outstanding, the current business environment, and historical experience. Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Write-downs of inventories to market value are based upon contractual provisions governing price protection, stock rotation, and obsolescence, as well as assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If assumptions about future demand change and/or actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by the company, additional write-downs of inventories may be required. Due to the large number of transactions and the complexity of managing the process around price protections and stock rotations, estimates are made regarding adjustments to the book cost of inventories. Actual amounts could be different from those estimated. Investments The company accounts for available-for-sale investments at fair value, using quoted market prices, and the related holding gains and losses are included in "Other" in the shareholders' equity section in the company's consolidated balance sheets. The company assesses its long-term investments accounted for as available-for-sale on a quarterly basis to determine whether declines in market value below cost are other-than-temporary. When the decline is determined to be other-than-temporary, the cost basis for the individual security is reduced and a loss is realized in the company's consolidated statement of operations in the period in which it occurs. The company makes such determination based upon the quoted market price, financial condition, operating results of the investee, and the company's intent and ability to retain the investment over a period of time, which is sufficient to allow for any recovery in market value. In addition, the company assesses the following factors: broad economic factors impacting the investee's industry; publicly available forecasts for sales and earnings growth for the industry and investee; and the cyclical nature of the investee's industry. During 2008, the company determined that an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value of its investment in Marubun Corporation occurred and, accordingly, recognized a loss of $10.0 million ($.08 per share on both a basic and diluted basis) on the write-down of this investment. The company could incur an additional impairment charge in future periods if, among other factors, the investee's future earnings differ from currently available forecasts. Income Taxes The carrying value of the company's deferred tax assets is dependent upon the company's ability to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain tax jurisdictions. Should the company determine that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of its deferred tax assets will not be realized, a valuation allowance to the deferred tax assets would be established in the period such determination was made. It is the company's policy to provide for uncertain tax positions and the related interest and penalties based upon management's assessment of whether a tax benefit is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by tax authorities. At December 31, 2010, the company believes it has appropriately accounted for any unrecognized tax benefits. To the extent the company prevails in matters for which a liability for an unrecognized tax benefit is established or is required to pay amounts in excess of the liability, the company's effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be affected. 37 Financial Instruments The company uses various financial instruments, including derivative financial instruments, for purposes other than trading. Derivatives used as part of the company's risk management strategy are designated at inception as hedges and measured for effectiveness both at inception and on an ongoing basis. The company enters into interest rate swap transactions that convert certain fixed-rate debt to variable-rate debt or variable-rate debt to fixed-rate debt in order to manage its targeted mix of fixed- and floating-rate debt. The effective portion of the change in the fair value of interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges is recorded as a change to the carrying value of the related hedged debt, and the effective portion of the change in fair value of interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges is recorded in the shareholders' equity section in the company's consolidated balance sheets in "Other." The ineffective portion of the interest rate swaps, if any, is recorded in "Interest and other financing expense, net" in the company's consolidated statements of operations. The company occasionally enters into cross-currency swaps to hedge a portion of its net investment in euro-denominated net assets. The company cross-currency swaps are derivatives designated as net investment hedges. The effective portion of the change in the fair value of derivatives designated as net investment hedges is recorded in "Foreign currency translation adjustment" included in the company's consolidated balance sheets and any ineffective portion is recorded in "Interest and other financing expense, net" in the company's consolidated statements of operations. The company uses the hypothetical derivative method to assess the effectiveness of its net investment hedge on a quarterly basis. Contingencies and Litigation The company is subject to proceedings, lawsuits, and other claims related to environmental, regulatory, labor, product, tax, and other matters and assesses the likelihood of an adverse judgment or outcome for these matters, as well as the range of potential losses. A determination of the reserves required, if any, is made after careful analysis. The reserves may change in the future due to new developments impacting the probability of a loss, the estimate of such loss, and the probability of recovery of such loss from third parties. Restructuring and Integration The company recorded charges in connection with restructuring its businesses, and the integration of acquired businesses. These items primarily include employee separation costs and estimates related to the consolidation of facilities (net of sub-lease income), contractual obligations, and the impairment of certain assets. Actual amounts could be different from those estimated. Stock-Based Compensation The company records share-based payment awards exchanged for employee services at fair value on the date of grant and expenses the awards in the consolidated statements of operations over the requisite employee service period. Stock-based compensation expense includes an estimate for forfeitures and is generally recognized over the vesting period of the award on a straight-line basis. Stock-based compensation expense related to awards with a market or performance condition is generally recognized over the vesting period of the award utilizing the graded vesting method. The fair value of stock options is determined using the Black-Scholes valuation model and the assumptions shown in Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of share-based payment awards represent management's best estimates. The company's estimates may be impacted by certain variables including, but not limited to, stock price volatility, employee stock option exercise behaviors, additional stock option grants, estimates of forfeitures, the company's performance, and related tax impacts. 38 Employee Benefit Plans The costs and obligations of the company's defined benefit pension plans are dependent on actuarial assumptions. The two critical assumptions used, which impact the net periodic pension cost (income) and the benefit obligation, are the discount rate and expected return on plan assets. The discount rate represents the market rate for a high quality corporate bond, and the expected return on plan assets is based on current and expected asset allocations, historical trends, and expected returns on plan assets. These key assumptions are evaluated annually. Changes in these assumptions can result in different expense and liability amounts. Costs in Excess of Net Assets of Companies Acquired Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the assets acquired. The company tests goodwill for impairment annually as of the first day of the fourth quarter, and when an event occurs or circumstances change such that it is more likely than not that an impairment may exist, such as (i) a significant adverse change in legal factors or in business climate, (ii) an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, (iii) unanticipated competition, (iv) a loss of key personnel, (v) a more-likely-than-not sale or disposal of all or a significant portion of a reporting unit, (vi) the testing for recoverability of a significant asset group within a reporting unit, or (vii) the recognition of a goodwill impairment loss of a subsidiary that is a component of the reporting unit. In addition, goodwill is required to be tested for impairment after a portion of the goodwill is allocated to a business targeted for disposal. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment utilizing a two-step process. The first step of the impairment test requires the identification of the reporting units and comparison of the fair value of each of these reporting units to the respective carrying value. The company's reporting units are defined as each of the three regional businesses within the global components business segment, which are the Americas, EMEA, and Asia/Pacific and each of the two regional businesses within the global ECS business segment, which are North America and EMEA. Prior to 2009, the North America and EMEA reporting units within the global ECS business segment were evaluated as a single reporting unit. If the carrying value of the reporting unit is less than its fair value, no impairment exists and the second step is not performed. If the carrying value of the reporting unit is higher than its fair value, the second step must be performed to compute the amount of the goodwill impairment, if any. In the second step, the impairment is computed by comparing the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized for the excess. The company generally estimates the fair value of a reporting unit using a three-year weighted average multiple of earnings before interest and taxes from comparable companies, which utilizes a look-back approach. The assumptions utilized in the evaluation of the impairment of goodwill under this approach include the identification of reporting units and the selection of comparable companies, which are critical accounting estimates subject to change. Beginning in 2008, as a result of significant declines in macroeconomic conditions, the company determined that it was prudent to also supplement its historical goodwill impairment testing methodology with a forward-looking discounted cash flow methodology. The assumptions included in the discounted cash flow methodology included forecasted revenues, gross profit margins, operating income margins, working capital cash flow, perpetual growth rates, and long-term discount rates, among others, all of which require significant judgments by management. The company also reconciles its discounted cash flow analysis to its current market capitalization allowing for a reasonable control premium. As of the first day of the fourth quarters of 2010, 2009, and 2008, the company's annual impairment testing did not indicate impairment at any of the company's reporting units. During the fourth quarter of 2008, as a result of significant declines in macroeconomic conditions, global equity valuations depreciated. Both factors impacted the company's market capitalization, and the company determined it was necessary to perform an interim goodwill impairment test as of December 31, 2008. Based upon the results of the discounted cash flow approach as of December 31, 2008, the carrying value of the global ECS reporting unit and the EMEA and Asia/Pacific reporting units within the global components business segment were higher than their fair value and, accordingly, the company 39 performed a step-two impairment analysis. The fair value of the Americas reporting unit within the global components business segment was higher than its carrying value and a step-two analysis was not required. The results of the step-two impairment analysis indicated that goodwill related to the EMEA and Asia/Pacific reporting units within the global components business segment were fully impaired and the goodwill related to the global ECS business segment was partially impaired. The company recognized a total non-cash impairment charge of $1.02 billion ($905.1 million net of related taxes or $7.49 per share on both a basic and diluted basis) as of December 31, 2008, of which $716.9 million related to the company's global components business segment and $301.9 million related to the company's global ECS business segment. The impairment charge did not impact the company consolidated cash flows, liquidity, capital resources, and covenants under its existing revolving credit facility, asset securitization program, and other outstanding borrowings. A decline in general economic conditions or global equity valuations, could impact the judgments and assumptions about the fair value of the company's businesses and the company could be required to record an additional impairment charge in the future, which could impact the company consolidated balance sheet, as well as the company consolidated statement of operations. If the company was required to recognize an additional impairment charge in the future, the charge would not impact the company consolidated cash flows, current liquidity, capital resources, and covenants under its existing revolving credit facility, asset securitization program, and other outstanding borrowings. As of December 31, 2010, the company has $1.34 billion of goodwill, of which approximately $670.9 million was allocated to the Americas reporting unit within the global components business segment and $509.0 million and $156.5 million was allocated to the North America and EMEA reporting units within the global ECS business segment, respectively. As of the date of the company's latest impairment test, the fair value of the Americas reporting unit within the global components business segment and the fair value of the North America and EMEA reporting units within the global ECS business segment exceeded their carrying values by approximately 70%, 159%, and 129%, respectively. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets The company reviews long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and identifiable intangible assets, for impairment whenever changes in circumstances or events may indicate that the carrying amounts are not recoverable. The company also tests indefinite-lived intangible assets, consisting of acquired trade names, for impairment at least annually as of the first day of the fourth quarter. If the fair value is less than the carrying amount of the asset, a loss is recognized for the difference. During 2008, the company recorded an impairment charge of $25.4 million in connection with an approved plan to market and sell a building and related land in the United States within the company's global components business segment. The company wrote-down the carrying values of the building and related land to their estimated fair values less cost to sell and ceased recording depreciation. During 2009, the company recorded an additional impairment charge of $2.1 million as a result of further declines in real estate valuations. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the assets were designated as assets held-for-sale, and the carrying values of $7.4 million and $9.5 million, respectively, were included in "Other current assets" on the company's consolidated balance sheets. The sale was completed in the first quarter of 2010. Factors which may cause an impairment of long-lived assets include significant changes in the manner of use of these assets, negative industry or market trends, a significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, or a likely sale or disposal of the asset before the end of its estimated useful life. If any of these factors exist, the company is required to test the long-lived asset for recoverability and may be required to recognize an impairment charge for all or a portion of the asset's carrying value. During the fourth quarter of 2008, as a result of significant declines in macroeconomic conditions, global equity valuations depreciated. Both factors impacted the company market capitalization, and the 40 company determined it was necessary to review the recoverability of its long-lived assets to be held and used, including property, plant and equipment and identifiable intangible assets, by comparing the carrying value of the related asset groups to the undiscounted cash flows directly attributable to the asset groups over the estimated useful life of those assets. Based upon the results of such tests as of December 31, 2008, the company long-lived assets to be held and used were not impaired. Shipping and Handling Costs Shipping and handling costs are reported as either a component of cost of sales or selling, general and administrative expenses. The company reports shipping and handling costs, primarily related to outbound freight, in the consolidated statements of operations as a component of selling, general and administrative expenses. If the company included such costs in cost of sales, gross profit margin as a percentage of sales for 2010 would decrease 30 basis points from 12.9% to 12.6% with a corresponding decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses and no impact on reported earnings. Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards In October 2009, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2009-13, " Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements " ( " ASU No. 2009-13 " ) and Accounting Standards Update No. 2009-14, "Certain Revenue Arrangements That Include Software Elements" ("ASU No. 2009-14"). ASU No. 2009-13 amends guidance included within ASC Topic 605-25 to require an entity to use an estimated selling price when vendor specific objective evidence or acceptable third party evidence does not exist for any products or services included in a multiple element arrangement. The arrangement consideration should be allocated among the products and services based upon their relative selling prices, thus eliminating the use of the residual method of allocation. ASU No. 2009-13 also requires expanded qualitative and quantitative disclosures regarding significant judgments made and changes in applying this guidance. ASU No. 2009-14 amends guidance included within ASC Topic 985-605 to exclude tangible products containing software components and non-software components that function together to deliver the product essential functionality. Entities that sell joint hardware and software products that meet this scope exception will be required to follow the guidance of ASU No. 2009-13. ASU No. 2009-13 and ASU No. 2009-14 are effective prospectively for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010, or January 1, 2011 for the company. While the company is continuing its evaluation of the impact of adoption of ASU No. 2009-13 and ASU No. 2009-14, management does not currently believe adoption will have a material impact on the company's consolidated financial position or results of operations. Information Relating to Forward-Looking Statements This report includes forward-looking statements that are subject to numerous assumptions, risks, and uncertainties, which could cause actual results or facts to differ materially from such statements for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to: industry conditions, the company's implementation of its new enterprise resource planning system, changes in product supply, pricing and customer demand, competition, other vagaries in the global components and global ECS markets, changes in relationships with key suppliers, increased profit margin pressure, the effects of additional actions taken to become more efficient or lower costs, and the company ability to generate additional cash flow. Forward-looking statements are those statements, which are not statements of historical fact. These forward-looking statements can be identified by forward-looking words such as "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "may," "will," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," and similar expressions. Shareholders and other readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. The company undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any of the forward-looking statements. 41 
