CIK: 844965
Company Name: TETRA TECHNOLOGIES INC
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2017-03-01
Accession Number: 0000844965-17-000003


Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation. The following discussion is intended to analyze major elements of our consolidated financial statements and provide insight into important areas of management focus. This section should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying Notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Statements in the following discussion may include forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. See Item 1A. Risk Factors, for additional discussion of these factors and risks. Business Overview Throughout 2016, we and our CSI Compressco LP subsidiary ("CCLP") continued to take steps to improve our liquidity and strengthen our balance sheet. In May 2016, and pursuant to tender offers (the Tender Offers ) to purchase for cash any and all of the outstanding Series 2010-A Senior Notes, Series 2010-B Senior Notes, and Series 2013 Senior Notes (together the "Tender Offer Senior Notes"), we purchased Tender Offer Senior Notes in an aggregate principal amount of $100.0 million , representing the total outstanding principal amount of the Tender Offer Senior Notes. In June 2016, upon the closing of an offering of our common stock, we issued 11.5 million shares of common stock and used a portion of the proceeds to repay the remaining balance outstanding under our senior secured notes. In December 2016, upon the closing of an additional offering of our common stock, we issued 22.3 million shares of common stock and warrants (the Warrants ) to purchase 11.2 million shares of common stock. These common stock offerings resulted in aggregate net proceeds of $168.3 million after deducting certain offering expenses. Proceeds from these common stock offerings were primarily used to retire outstanding indebtedness. In addition, in July 2016 and December 2016, we entered into amendments of the agreements governing our bank revolving credit facility (as amended, the "Credit Agreement") and our 11% Senior Note due November 5, 2022 (as amended, the "Amended and Restated 11% Senior Note Agreement") whereby, among other modifications, certain covenants under the Credit Agreement and the Amended and Restated 11% Senior Note Agreement were favorably amended. In August 2016 and September 2016, CCLP received $76.9 million of aggregate net proceeds, after deducting certain offering expenses, from the private placements of its Series A Convertible Preferred Units (the "CCLP Preferred Units") and such proceeds were used to pay additional offering expenses and reduce outstanding indebtedness of CCLP under the CCLP Credit Agreement and its 7.25% Senior Notes due 2022 (the "CCLP 7.25% Senior Notes"). We purchased a portion of the CCLP Preferred Units for $10.0 million . In May 2016 and November 2016, CCLP entered into amendments of the agreement governing its bank revolving credit facility (as amended, the "CCLP Credit Agreement") by, among other things, favorably amending certain covenants. In addition, we and CCLP also continued to maintain a low operating and administrative cost structure while aggressively reducing capital expenditure activity. In light of a long-anticipated recovery for our industry, each of the above described liquidity and balance sheet measures were taken not only to ensure compliance with debt covenants, but also to position us and CCLP to be able to capitalize on growth opportunities as they arise. We and CCLP plan to consider additional debt and/or equity financing transactions as needed with a view of generating additional cash to reduce the amounts of our outstanding borrowings under our respective credit agreements, repay or refinance additional amounts of our respective senior notes, and generate additional liquidity. Our consolidated results of operations during the year ended December 31, 2016 reflected the challenges experienced by each of our businesses in the current oil and gas services environment. Decreased demand for most of our products and services reflects the industry-wide reduction in drilling and completion activity which has resulted in decreased revenues for each of our segments during 2016 compared to the prior year. The 38.5% decrease in consolidated revenues during 2016 compared to the prior year reflects both the decrease in activity and the competitive pricing pressures experienced by the majority of our businesses in each of their operating regions. Consolidated gross profit decreased 72.8% largely due to decreased gross profit from the Fluids Division, which benefited during 2015 from increased activity and a favorable mix of products and services, including from a customer project associated with a completion fluids technology that was introduced during 2015. This decrease in consolidated gross profit was realized despite the aggressive reductions in operating costs that each of our businesses have made through headcount reductions, salary reductions, work week reductions, suspension of company matching contributions under the 401(k) retirement plan, and other cost reduction efforts designed to partially mitigate the impact of decreased revenues. A portion of the reduced salaries was restored in January 2017. We also continue to negotiate with our suppliers and service providers to reduce costs in the current environment. The significant decrease in consolidated general and administrative expenses compared to the prior year was partially offset by increased interest and other expenses caused primarily by the impact from increased interest rates and from the issuance of the CCLP Preferred Units. As a result of the expected continuing challenges of the current environment and the decreased prices of our common stock and the common unit price of CCLP during early 2016, we recorded $116.9 million of goodwill and other asset impairments as of March 31, 2016 and $7.2 33 million of asset impairments as of December 31, 2016 . During early 2017, we are seeing indicators of an improving demand for our products and services. The impact from decreased consolidated cash provided from operating activities during 2016 compared to 2015 was largely offset by decreased capital expenditure activity for these periods. Growth and maintenance capital expenditure levels continue to be significantly reduced for each of our businesses, as we are conserving cash in the current environment until such reductions are no longer justified. We continue to consider additional cost reductions and maintain our efforts to manage working capital, particularly in the collection of customer receivables. We also continue to monitor the evolving financial condition of many of our customers during this current downturn, balancing the benefits of generating operating cash flows with the risk of exposing our businesses to additional credit risk exposure. We and CCLP believe that each of the cost reduction and capital structuring measures taken enhances our respective abilities to continue to remain fiscally responsible for the uncertain duration of the current operating environment, and position each of us to capitalize on growth opportunities as industry conditions improve. We do not analyze or manage our capital structure on a consolidated basis, as there are no cross default provisions, cross collateralization provisions, or cross guarantees between CCLP's long-term debt and TETRA's long-term debt. Approximately $504.1 million of our consolidated debt balance is owed by CCLP, and is to be serviced by CCLP's existing cash balances and cash provided by CCLP's operations (less its capital expenditures) and is secured by the assets of CCLP. The following table provides condensed consolidating balance sheet information reflecting our net assets and CCLP's net assets that service our and its respective capital structures. December 31, 2016 Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheet TETRA CCLP Eliminations Consolidated (In Thousands) Cash, excluding restricted cash $ 9,043 $ 20,797 $ $ 29,840 Affiliate receivables 6,180 (6,180 ) Other current assets 164,744 81,207 245,951 Property, plant and equipment, net 298,445 647,006 945,451 Other assets, including investment in CCLP 44,542 37,130 12,626 94,298 Total assets $ 522,954 $ 786,140 $ 6,446 $ 1,315,540 Affiliate payables $ $ 6,180 $ (6,180 ) $ Current portion of long-term debt 30 30 Other current liabilities 73,121 43,734 116,855 Long-term debt, net 119,640 504,090 623,730 CCLP Series A Preferred Units 88,130 (11,068 ) 77,062 Warrant liability 18,503 18,503 Other non-current liabilities 78,137 757 78,894 Total equity 233,523 143,249 23,694 400,466 Total liabilities and equity $ 522,954 $ 786,140 $ 6,446 $ 1,315,540 TETRA debt is serviced by our existing cash balances and cash provided from operating activities (excluding CCLP) and the distributions we receive from CCLP in excess of our cash capital expenditures (excluding CCLP). During the year ended December 31, 2016 , consolidated cash provided from operating activities was $54.0 million , which included approximately $61.4 million generated by CCLP. During 2016 , we received $22.3 million from CCLP as our share of CCLP distributions. Our consolidated operating cash flows during the year ended December 31, 2016 decreased by $142.0 million , or 72.5% , compared to the prior year, primarily due to decreased earnings. Partially offsetting the decrease in revenues and earnings, our consolidated operating cash flows reflect the impact of the fiscal management steps noted above, including a focus on timely collection of accounts receivable and other steps to manage working 34 capital. Consolidated capital expenditures were $21.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2016 , and included $11.6 million of capital expenditures by our Compression Division, compared to $120.6 million of consolidated capital expenditures during the prior year, including $95.3 million by our Compression Division. Our lower capital expenditure levels reflect our efforts to defer or reduce capital expenditure projects in the current market environment. Key objectives associated with our separate capital structure (excluding the capital structure of CCLP) include the ongoing management of amounts outstanding and available under our bank revolving credit facility and repayment of our 11% Senior Note. CCLP also continues to monitor its 2017 capital expenditure program, in light of current low demand levels for its compression products and services in the current environment, in an effort to minimize future borrowings under the CCLP Credit Agreement. TETRA's future consolidated operating cash flows are also affected by the continuing challenges associated with extinguishing the remaining Maritech asset retirement obligations. The amount of recorded liability for these remaining obligations is approximately $45.6 million as of December 31, 2016 . Approximately $1.0 million of this amount is expected to be performed during the twelve month period ending December 31, 2017, with the timing of a portion of this work being subject to change. Future demand for our products and services depends primarily on activity in the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry, particularly including the level of expenditures for the exploration and production of oil and natural gas reserves, natural gas compression infrastructure, and for the plugging and decommissioning of abandoned offshore oil and natural gas properties. The future growth of certain of our businesses is dependent on improved future pricing levels of oil and natural gas. When oil and natural gas prices increase, we believe that there are growth opportunities for our products and services, supported primarily by: increases in technologically driven deepwater oil and gas well completions in the Gulf of Mexico; applications for many of our products and services in the continuing exploitation and development of shale reservoirs; increased regulatory requirements governing the abandonment and decommissioning work on aging offshore platforms and wells in the Gulf of Mexico; and increases in selected international oil and gas exploration and development activities. Our Fluids Division generates revenues and cash flows by manufacturing and marketing clear brine fluids ("CBFs"), additives, and associated products and services to the oil and gas industry for use in well drilling, completion, and workover operations in the United States and in certain countries in Latin America, Europe, Asia, the Middle East, and Africa. The Fluids Division also markets liquid and dry calcium chloride products manufactured at its production facilities or purchased from third-party suppliers to a variety of markets outside the energy industry. The Fluids Division also provides domestic onshore oil and gas operators with a wide variety of water management services. Fluids Division revenues decreased $177.4 million during 2016 compared to 2015 , primarily due to reduced U.S. Gulf of Mexico CBF products and services revenues. This decrease reflects the decreased overall offshore activity levels as a result of continued low oil and natural gas prices and the reduced well completion projects compared to 2015 primarily due to reduced activity from a single customer using new completion fluid technology that was introduced earlier in 2015. Although demand for the Fluids Division CBF products is driven primarily by completion activity rather than drilling activity, the Gulf of Mexico rig count is a useful indicator of future demand for offshore CBF products. The Gulf of Mexico rig count dropped during 2016 as a result of low oil and natural gas prices and remains low in early 2017. Demand for certain of the Fluids Division's other products and services, particularly for its manufactured products and for its CBF products in U.S. onshore and international markets, has also been negatively affected by current low oil and natural gas prices. The Fluids water management business is also dependent upon domestic drilling activity, particularly in unconventional shale gas and oil reservoirs. North American onshore rig counts again decreased significantly during 2016 compared to the prior year, but have begun to increase in late 2016 and early 2017, approaching end of 2015 levels. Our Production Testing Division generates revenues and cash flows by performing frac flowback, production well testing, offshore rig cooling, early production, and other associated services and products. The primary markets served by the Production Testing Division include many of the major oil and gas producing regions in the United States, Mexico, and Canada, as well as in oil and gas basins in certain regions in South America, Africa, Europe, the Middle East, and Australia. The Production Testing Division production testing operations are generally driven by the demand for natural gas and oil and the resulting levels of drilling and completion activities in the markets that the Production Testing Division serves. Many of the markets served by the Production Testing Division are characterized by high lifting costs for oil and natural gas, such as in certain unconventional shale gas and oil reservoirs and located in certain basins in the U.S., Canada, and certain other international markets. As a 35 result of decreased oil and natural gas commodity prices, and the corresponding declines in the plans of its customers for drilling and capital expenditures, Production Testing activity levels have declined, particularly in certain markets in which it operates that are characterized by higher lifting costs. The Production Testing Division revenues decreased by $70.3 million in 2016 compared to 2015 , due to decreased overall market activity. The impact of continued low oil and natural gas pricing has negatively impacted demand for services in each of our areas of operations, including certain shale reservoir markets that were a source of revenue growth during the past several years. Increased competition for decreased industry activity negatively affected pricing levels for services. Although many of the Production Testing Division's customers continue to have reduced drilling and capital expenditure levels compared to 2015, recent increased rig counts in certain domestic and Canadian markets in which the Production Testing Division operates indicate that future activity levels may be increasing compared to 2016. Our Compression Division, through CCLP, generates revenues and cash flows by providing compression services and equipment for natural gas and oil production, gathering, transportation, processing, and storage. The Compression Division's equipment sales business includes the fabrication and sale of standard compressor packages, custom-designed compressor packages, and oilfield pump systems designed and fabricated at the Compression Division's facilities. The Compression Division's aftermarket business provides a wide range of services including operation, maintenance, overhaul and reconfiguration services as well as the sale of compressor package parts and components manufactured by third-party suppliers. The Compression Division provides its services and equipment to a broad base of natural gas and oil exploration and production, midstream, transmission, and storage companies operating throughout many of the onshore producing regions of the United States as well as in a number of foreign countries, including Mexico, Canada and Argentina. Compression Division revenues decreased $146.3 million in 2016 as compared to 2015 , primarily attributable to decreased demand for new equipment sales, reflecting the decreased capital expenditure levels of its customers. Compression Division service revenues have also been negatively affected by current low oil and natural gas pricing, particularly resulting in decreased demand for low-horsepower compression services in liquids-rich and dry gas markets. The decrease in demand for new compressor sales and low-horsepower compression services, due to reduced oil and natural gas prices, is expected to continue going forward until such commodity pricing improves. Our Offshore Division consists of two operating segments: Offshore Services and Maritech. The Offshore Services segment generates revenues and cash flows by performing (1) downhole and subsea services such as oil and gas well plugging and abandonment and workover services, (2) decommissioning and certain construction services utilizing heavy lift barges and various cutting technologies with regard to offshore oil and gas production platforms and pipelines, and (3) conventional and saturated diving services. The services provided by the Offshore Services segment are marketed to offshore operators, primarily in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. Gulf of Mexico platform decommissioning and well abandonment activity levels are driven primarily by Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement ("BSEE") regulations; the declining production levels of producing fields; the age of production platforms and other structures; oil and natural gas commodity prices; sales activity of mature oil and gas producing properties; and overall oil and gas company activity levels. Offshore Services revenues decreased by $44.7 million during 2016 compared to 2015 , due to the continuing challenges in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico market, including decreased abandonment, diving, and heavy lift services activity, customer project delays, and pricing pressures. A portion of the decreased revenues during 2016 compared to 2015 was due to decreased decommissioning and abandonment work performed for Maritech, and we expect that Maritech activity will again be minimal in 2017. Revenues for work performed for Maritech are eliminated in consolidation. Demand for services in 2016 and projected work for 2017 reflects the impact of increased competition and the impact of reduced customer activity resulting from decreased oil and natural gas prices. The sale of substantially all of Maritech oil and gas producing properties during 2011 and 2012 has essentially removed us from the oil and gas exploration and production business. Maritech revenues are minimal and are expected to continue to be minimal going forward. Maritech current operations primarily consist of the ongoing plugging, abandonment, and decommissioning associated with its remaining offshore wells, facilities, and production platforms. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates This discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements. We prepared these financial statements in conformity with United States generally accepted accounting principles. In preparing our consolidated financial statements, we make assumptions, estimates, and judgments that affect the amounts reported. We base these estimates on historical 36 experience, available information, and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable. We periodically evaluate these estimates and judgments, including those related to potential impairments of long-lived assets (including goodwill), the fair value of financial instruments (the Warrants and CCLP Preferred Units), the collectability of accounts receivable, and the current cost of future abandonment and decommissioning obligations. Note B Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the Consolidated Financial Statements contains the accounting policies governing each of these matters. The fair values of portions of our total assets and liabilities are measured using significant unobservable inputs. The combination of these factors forms the basis for our judgments made about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. These judgments and estimates may change as new events occur, as new information is acquired, and as changes in our operating environment are encountered. Actual results are likely to differ from our current estimates, and those differences may be material. The following critical accounting policies reflect the most significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements. Fair Value of Financial Instruments During 2016, we issued the Warrants and CCLP issued the CCLP Preferred Units as part of equity offerings to generate proceeds that were used to reduce long-term debt outstanding. The Warrants are accounted for as a derivative liability in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 815 "Derivatives and Hedging" and therefore they are classified as a long-term liability on our consolidated balance sheet at their fair value. The CCLP Preferred Units may be settled using a variable number of common units, and therefore the fair value of the CCLP Preferred Units is classified as a long-term liability on our consolidated balance sheet in accordance with ASC 480 "Distinguishing Liabilities and Equity." Changes in fair value of these financial instruments during each quarterly period are charged to earnings in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. The Warrants are valued using the Black Scholes option valuation model that includes estimates of the volatility of the Warrants based on their trading prices. The CCLP Preferred Units are valued using market information related to debt instruments, the trading price of the CCLP common units, and lattice modeling techniques. The fair values of the Warrants and the CCLP Preferred Units will generally increase or decrease with the trading price and volatility of our common stock and the CCLP common units, respectively. Increases (or decreases) in the fair value of these financial instruments will increase (decrease) the associated liability, resulting in future adjustments to earnings for the associated valuation losses (gains), and resulting in future volatility of our earnings during the period the financial instruments are outstanding. These estimates used in the calculated fair values of these financial instruments may not be accurate. As of December 31, 2016 , the estimated fair value of the Warrants was $18.5 million , and the $2.1 million change in fair value subsequent to their issuance in December 2016 was charged to earnings during the period. As of December 31, 2016 , the estimated fair value of the CCLP Preferred Units was $77.1 million , and the $4.4 million change in fair value subsequent to their issuance was charged (or credited)to earnings during the period. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets The determination of impairment of long-lived assets, including identified intangible assets, is conducted periodically whenever indicators of impairment are present. If such indicators are present, the determination of the amount of impairment is based on our judgments as to the future operating cash flows to be generated from these assets throughout their estimated useful lives. If an impairment of a long-lived asset is warranted, we estimate the fair value of the asset based on a present value of these cash flows or the value that could be realized from disposing of the asset in a transaction between market participants. The oil and gas industry is cyclical, and our estimates of the amount of future cash flows, the period over which these estimated future cash flows will be generated, as well as the fair value of an impaired asset, are imprecise. Our failure to accurately estimate these future operating cash flows or fair values could result in certain long-lived assets being overstated, which could result in impairment charges in periods subsequent to the time in which the impairment indicators were first present. Alternatively, if our estimates of future operating cash flows or fair values are understated, impairments might be recognized unnecessarily or in excess of the appropriate amounts. During 2016 , primarily as a result of the significant decrease in oil and natural gas prices, we recorded consolidated long-lived asset impairments of $18.2 million . During periods of economic uncertainty, the likelihood of additional material impairments of long-lived assets is higher due to the possibility of decreased demand for our products and services. 37 Impairment of Goodwill The impairment of goodwill is also assessed whenever impairment indicators are present, but not less than once annually. As of December 31, 2016, consolidated goodwill consists of the $6.6 million goodwill attributed to our Fluids reporting unit. The assessment for goodwill impairment begins with a qualitative assessment of whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of each reporting unit is less than its carrying value. This qualitative assessment requires the evaluation, based on the weight of evidence, of the significance of all identified events and circumstances for each reporting unit. Based on this qualitative assessment, we determined that due to the significant decrease in oil and natural gas commodity prices and the resulting expected negative impact on demand for the products and services for each of our reporting units, it was more likely than not that the fair value of our Fluids reporting unit was less than its carrying value as of December 31, 2016 . When the qualitative analysis indicates that it is more likely than not that a reporting unit fair value is less than its carrying value, the resulting goodwill impairment test consists of a two-step accounting test performed on a reporting unit basis. The first step of the impairment test is to compare the estimated fair value with the recorded net book value (including goodwill) of our reporting units. If the estimated fair value is higher than the recorded net book value, no impairment is deemed to exist and no further testing is required. If, however, the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, an impairment loss is calculated by comparing the carrying amount of the reporting unit goodwill to our estimated implied fair value of that goodwill. Our estimates of reporting unit fair value, when required, are based on a combination of an income and market approach. These estimates are imprecise and are subject to our estimates of the future cash flows of each business and our judgment as to how these estimated cash flows translate into each business estimated fair value. These estimates and judgments are affected by numerous factors, including the general economic environment at the time of our assessment, which affects our overall market capitalization. If we overestimate the fair value of our reporting units, the balance of our goodwill asset may be overstated. Alternatively, if our estimated reporting unit fair values are understated, impairments might be recognized unnecessarily or in excess of the appropriate amounts. Throughout 2015 and 2016, lower oil and natural gas commodity prices have resulted in a decreased demand for many of the products and services of each of our reporting units. Specifically to our Compression Division, demand for low-horsepower wellhead compression services and for sales of compressor equipment have decreased significantly. Accordingly, the fair value for the Compression Division reporting unit, including the market capitalization for CCLP, was less than its carrying value as of December 31, 2015. In addition, during the first quarter of 2016, as the market for services of CCLP continued to decline, the market capitalization of CCLP dropped significantly from December 31, 2015. Accordingly, the fair value, including the market capitalization for CCLP, for the Compression reporting unit was less than its carrying value as of March 31, 2016, despite impairments recorded as of December 31, 2015. For our Production Testing Division reporting unit, demand for production testing services has decreased in each of the market areas in which we operate, resulting in decreased estimated future cash flows. As a result, the fair value of the Production Testing reporting unit was also less than its carrying value as of December 31, 2015. In addition, the market activity continued to decrease during the first quarter of 2016 and as a result the fair value of the Production Testing reporting unit was also less than its carrying value as of March 31, 2016, despite impairments recorded as of December 31, 2015. After making the hypothetical purchase price adjustments as part of the second step of the goodwill impairment test as of March 31, 2016, there was $0.0 million residual purchase price to be allocated to the goodwill of the Compression reporting unit and $0.0 million residual purchase price to be allocated to the goodwill of the Production Testing reporting unit. Based on this analysis, we concluded that a full impairment of $92.3 million of remaining recorded goodwill for Compression and a full impairment of $13.9 million of the remaining recorded goodwill for Production Testing was required as of March 31, 2016. As part of our internal annual business outlook for each of our reporting units that we performed during the fourth quarter of 2016, we considered the global economic environment that has continued to affect demand for our products and services and has affected our stock price and market capitalization. As a result of these factors, we determined that it was more likely than not that the fair value of our Fluids reporting unit was less than its carrying value as of December 31, 2016 . As part of the first step of goodwill impairment testing as of December 31, 2016, we updated our annual assessment of the future cash flows for each of our reporting units, applying expected long-term growth rates, discount rates, and terminal values that we consider reasonable for each reporting unit. We have calculated a present value of the respective cash flows for each of the reporting units to arrive at an estimate of fair value under the income approach, and then used the market approach to corroborate these values. Based on these assumptions, we determined that the fair value of our Fluids Division was significantly in excess of its carrying value, which includes approximately $6.6 million of goodwill. 38 Maritech Decommissioning Liabilities Maritech records a liability associated with the costs of abandoning and decommissioning the wells, platforms, and pipelines located on its oil and gas leases, as well as removing associated debris. Maritech decommissioning liabilities are established based on what Maritech estimates a third party would charge to perform these services. These well abandonment and decommissioning liabilities (referred to as decommissioning liabilities) are recorded net of amounts allocable to joint interest owners. In estimating the decommissioning liabilities, we perform detailed estimating procedures, analysis, and engineering studies. Whenever practical, Maritech settles these decommissioning liabilities by utilizing the services of its affiliated companies to perform well abandonment and decommissioning work. This practice saves us the profit margin that a third party would charge for such services. When these services are performed by an affiliated company, all recorded intercompany revenues are eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. Any difference between our own internal costs to settle the decommissioning liability and the recorded liability is recognized in the period in which we perform the work. The recorded decommissioning liability associated with a specific property is fully extinguished when the property is completely abandoned. Once a Maritech well abandonment and decommissioning project is performed, any remaining decommissioning liability in excess of the actual cost of the work performed is recorded as a gain and is included in earnings in the period in which the project is completed. Conversely, estimated or actual costs in excess of the decommissioning liability are charged against earnings in the period in which the work is estimated or performed. We review the adequacy of our decommissioning liabilities whenever indicators suggest that either the amount or timing of the estimated cash flows underlying the liabilities have changed materially. The amount of cash flows necessary to abandon and decommission the property is subject to changes due to seasonal demand, increased demand following hurricanes, regulatory changes, and other general changes in the energy industry environment. Accordingly, the estimation of our decommissioning liabilities is imprecise. Asset retirement obligations are recorded in accordance with ASC 410 "Asset Retirement and Environmental Obligations," whereby the estimated fair value of a liability for asset retirement obligations is recorded in the period in which it is incurred and in which a reasonable estimate can be made. Such estimates are based on relevant assumptions that we believe are reasonable. The cost estimates for Maritech asset retirement obligations are considered reasonable estimates consistent with market conditions at the time they are made, and we believe they reflect the amount of work legally obligated to be performed in accordance with BSEE standards, as revised from time to time. During each of the three years ended December 31, 2016 , Maritech adjusted its decommissioning liabilities as a result of increased estimates, as well as the actual cost of significant abandonment and decommissioning work performed during each of those years. Maritech recorded approximately $78.0 million of excess decommissioning expense during the three years ended December 31, 2016 , associated with work performed or to be performed on its oil and gas properties. The actual cost of performing Maritech well abandonment and decommissioning work has often exceeded Maritech's initial estimate of these decommissioning liabilities and has resulted in charges to earnings in the period the work is performed or when the additional liability is determined. To the extent our decommissioning liabilities are understated, additional charges to earnings may be required in future periods. Revenue Recognition We generate revenue on certain well abandonment, decommissioning, and dive services projects under contracts which are typically of short duration and that provide for either lump-sum charges or specific time, material, and equipment charges, which are billed in accordance with the terms of such contracts. We generally recognize revenue once the following four criteria are met: (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (2) delivery has occurred or services have been provided; (3) the sales price is fixed or determinable; and (4) collectability is reasonably assured. The majority of our compression services are provided pursuant to contract terms ranging from one month to twenty-four months. Collections associated with progressive billings to customers for the construction of compression equipment are generally included in unearned income in the consolidated balance sheets until such time as the equipment is delivered. Income Taxes We are a U.S. company and are subject to income taxes in the U.S. We also operate in a number of countries under many legal forms. Our operations are taxed on various bases, including actual income before 39 taxes, deemed profits (which are generally determined using a percentage of revenue rather than profits) and withholding taxes based on revenue. Determination of taxable income in any jurisdiction requires the interpretation of the applicable tax laws and regulations and the use of estimates and assumptions regarding significant future events such as the amount, timing, and character of deductions, permissible revenue recognition methods under the applicable tax laws, and the sources and character of income and tax credits. We provide for income taxes by taking into account the differences between the financial statement treatment and tax treatment of certain transactions. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the anticipated future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax basis amounts. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect of a change in tax rates is recognized as income or expense in the period that includes the enactment date. Management must make certain assumptions regarding whether tax differences are permanent or temporary and must estimate the timing of their reversal, and whether taxable operating income in future periods will be sufficient to fully recognize any gross deferred tax assets. We establish valuation allowances to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In determining the need for valuation allowances, management has considered and made judgments and estimates regarding estimated future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. Changes in state, federal, and foreign tax laws, as well as changes in our financial condition, could affect these estimates. In addition, we maintain liabilities for estimated tax exposures and uncertainties in jurisdictions where we operate. The annual tax provision includes the impact of income tax provisions and benefits for changes to liabilities that we consider appropriate, as well as related interest and penalties. We consider many factors when evaluating and estimating income tax uncertainties. These factors include an evaluation of the technical merits of the tax position as well as the amounts and probabilities of the outcomes that could be realized upon ultimate settlement. The actual resolution of those uncertainties will inevitably differ from those estimates, and such differences may be material to the financial statements. We believe that an appropriate liability has been established for the estimated exposures associated with these uncertainties under the guidance in ASC 740 Income Taxes. However, the actual resolution of those uncertainties will inevitably differ from those estimates, and such differences may be material to our consolidated financial statements. Acquisition Purchase Price Allocations We account for acquisitions of businesses using the purchase method, which requires the allocation of the purchase price based on the fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired. We estimate the fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired using accepted valuation methods, and, in many cases, such estimates are based on our judgments as to the future operating cash flows expected to be generated from the acquired assets throughout their estimated useful lives. We have completed several acquisitions during the past several years and have accounted for the various assets (including intangible assets) and liabilities acquired based on our estimate of fair values. Goodwill represents the excess of acquisition purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired. Our estimates and judgments of the fair value of acquired businesses are imprecise, and the use of inaccurate fair value estimates could result in the improper allocation of the acquisition purchase price to acquired assets and liabilities, which could result in asset impairments, the recording of previously unrecorded liabilities, and other financial statement adjustments. The difficulty in estimating the fair values of acquired assets and liabilities is increased during periods of economic uncertainty. 40 Results of Operations The following data should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the associated Notes contained elsewhere in this report. 2016 Compared to 2015 Consolidated Comparisons Year Ended December 31, Period to Period Change 2016 2015 2016 vs 2015 % Change (In Thousands, Except Percentages) Revenues $ 694,764 $ 1,130,145 $ (435,381 ) (38.5 )% Gross profit 51,417 189,236 (137,819 ) (72.8 )% Gross profit as a percentage of revenue 7.4 % 16.7 % General and administrative expense 115,964 157,812 (41,848 ) (26.5 )% General and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue 16.7 % 14.0 % Goodwill impairment 106,205 177,006 (70,801 ) Interest expense, net 58,626 54,477 4,149 7.6 % (Gain) loss on sale of assets (2,357 ) (4,375 ) 2,018 Warrants fair value adjustment 2,106 2,106 CCLP Series A Preferred fair value adjustment 4,404 4,404 Other (income) expense, net 3,559 6,079 (2,520 ) Loss before taxes and discontinued operations (237,090 ) (201,763 ) (35,327 ) Income (loss) before taxes as a percentage of revenue (34.1 )% (17.9 )% Provision (benefit) for income taxes 2,303 7,704 (5,401 ) Net loss (239,393 ) (209,467 ) (29,926 ) Net (income) loss attributable to noncontrolling interest 77,931 83,284 (5,353 ) Net loss attributable to TETRA stockholders $ (161,462 ) $ (126,183 ) $ (35,279 ) Consolidated revenues for 2016 decreased compared to the prior year due to continuing overall oil and gas services industry market challenges as a result of lower oil and natural gas commodity prices compared to 2014 and early 2015. Each of our segments reported decreased revenues due to the impact of reduced demand for our products and services. The Fluids Division reported the most significant reduction in revenues, with decreased completion services and products, water management services, and manufactured product sales combining for $177.5 million of decreased revenues. Our Compression Division also reported significantly decreased revenues during 2016, primarily due to reduced sales of compressor units and from decreased demand for compression services. Lower industry demand and activity levels continue to negatively impact each of the domestic and international markets we serve, although during early 2017 we are seeing indicators of an improving demand for our products and services. See Divisional Comparisons section below for additional discussion. Consolidated gross profit decreased significantly during 2016 compared to the prior year due to the reduced demand for our products and services, as well as the impact of pricing pressures in each of our businesses. Our Fluids Division reported the most significant reduction in gross profit, due to the impact from decreased offshore completion fluids products and services, including those associated with fluid technology projects during the prior year. Our Compression Division reported a decrease in gross profit compared to the prior year primarily due to the decrease in compression services. The results of each of our businesses reflect the impact of company-wide salary reductions and headcount reductions that were implemented during 2016. We continue to review the cost structure of each of our businesses for opportunities to further improve gross profit. Consolidated general and administrative expenses decreased during 2016 compared to the prior year, primarily due to cost reduction efforts across all segments resulting in lower salary and employee related expenses. 41 Despite the cost reductions made during the current year, consolidated general and administrative expense increased as a percentage of consolidated revenues due to the significant decrease in revenues. During the first quarter of 2016, we updated our test of goodwill impairment in accordance with the ASC 350-20 "Goodwill" due to the decreases in the price of our common stock and the common unit price of CCLP. The continued decreased oil and natural gas commodity prices had, and are expected to have, a continuing negative impact on industry drilling and capital expenditure activity, which affects the expected demand for products and services of each of our reporting units. Specifically, demand for our Compression Division's compression services and for sales of compressor equipment decreased significantly and are expected to continue to be decreased for the foreseeable future. Demand for our Production Testing Division's services also decreased as a result of decreased drilling and completion activity. This expected decreased demand, along with the decreases in the price of our common stock and the common unit price of our CCLP subsidiary, also caused an overall reduction in the fair values of each of our reporting units, particularly our Compression and Production Testing reporting units. As part of the test of goodwill impairment, we estimated the fair value of each of our reporting units, and determined, based on these estimated values, that impairments of the remaining goodwill of our Compression and Production Testing reporting units were necessary, primarily due to the market factors discussed above. Accordingly, during the first quarter of 2016, we recorded total impairment charges of $106.2 million associated with the goodwill of these reporting units. Consolidated interest expense increased in 2016 compared to the prior year primarily due to the higher interest rate on the 11% Senior Note that was issued in November 2015 and from the increased interest recorded related to the paid in kind distributions on the CCLP Preferred Units which were issued during 2016. Interest expense during 2016 and 2015 includes $4.1 million and $4.0 million , respectively, of finance cost amortization. Gain on sales of assets decreased during 2016 compared to the prior year primarily due to significant gains on sales of Production Testing Division assets during 2015. The Warrants are accounted for as a derivative liability in accordance with ASC 815 and therefore they are classified as a long-term liability on our consolidated balance sheet at their fair value. Increases (or decreases) in the fair value of the Warrants will increase (decrease) the associated liability, resulting in adjustments to earnings for the associated valuation losses (gains), and resulting in future volatility of our earnings during the period the Warrants are outstanding. The CCLP Preferred Units may be settled using a variable number of common units, and therefore the fair value of the CCLP Preferred Units is classified as a long-term liability on our consolidated balance sheet in accordance with ASC 480. Because the CCLP Preferred Units are convertible into CCLP common units at the option of the holder, the fair value of the CCLP Preferred Units will generally increase or decrease with the trading price of the CCLP common units, and this increase (decrease) in CCLP Preferred Unit fair value will be charged (credited) to earnings, resulting in future volatility of our earnings during the period the CCLP Preferred Units are outstanding. Consolidated other expense, net, was $3.6 million during 2016 compared to $6.1 million during the prior year. The change in other expense, net, is primarily due to $2.7 million of increased other income associated with Maritech, $2.6 million of increased currency gains, and $1.4 million of net gains on the extinguishment of CCLP Senior Notes. These increases in other income were offset by increased expenses associated with bank and commitment fees of $3.1 million and increased foreign currency exchange losses of $1.4 million. Our consolidated provisions for income taxes during 2016 and 2015 were primarily attributable to taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions and Texas gross margin taxes. Our consolidated effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2016 of negative 1.0% was primarily the result of losses generated in entities for which no related tax benefit has been recorded. The losses generated by these entities do not result in tax benefits due to offsetting valuation allowances being recorded against the related net deferred tax assets. We establish a valuation allowance to reduce the deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Included in our deferred tax assets are net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits that are available to offset future income tax liabilities in the U.S. as well as in certain foreign jurisdictions. Further, the effective tax rate is negatively impacted by the nondeductible portion of our goodwill impairments recorded during 2016 and 2015. 42 Divisional Comparisons Fluids Division Year Ended December 31, Period to Period Change 2016 2015 2016 vs 2015 % Change (In Thousands, Except Percentages) Revenues $ 246,595 $ 424,044 $ (177,449 ) (41.8 )% Gross profit 36,888 111,969 (75,081 ) (67.1 )% Gross profit as a percentage of revenue 15.0 % 26.4 % General and administrative expense 27,650 32,576 (4,926 ) (15.1 )% General and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue 11.2 % 7.7 % Interest (income) expense, net (4 ) (258 ) 254 Other (income) expense, net (1,189 ) (1,138 ) (51 ) Income before taxes and discontinued operations $ 10,431 $ 80,789 $ (70,358 ) (87.1 )% Income before taxes and discontinued operations as a percentage of revenue 4.2 % 19.1 % Decreased Fluids Division revenues during 2016 compared to the prior year were primarily due to $129.6 million of decreased product sales revenues, which were primarily due to decreased CBF and associated product sales revenues in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, reflecting the decreased rig count activity compared to the prior year and a decrease resulting from a customer well completion project during the prior year using a completion fluid technology that was introduced during 2015. In addition, product sales revenues also decreased compared to the prior year due to decreased domestic manufactured products sales revenues (as a result of reduced energy industry demand and due to milder winter weather). Service revenues decreased $47.8 million , primarily due to reduced demand in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico for completion services as a result of a reduction in completion activity and due to decreased water management services activity resulting from the impact of lower oil and natural gas commodity prices. We began to see an increased demand in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico for our completion products and services during the second half of 2016. Fluids Division gross profit during 2016 decreased compared to the prior year primarily due to continued pricing pressures on our products and services, lower revenues and decreased profitability associated with the mix of CBF products and services, particularly for offshore completion fluids products and services associated with the new fluid technology projects during the prior year. In addition, Fluids Division gross profit declined as a result of the reduced demand for manufactured products during 2016 compared to the prior year. The Fluids Division reported a significant decrease in pretax earnings during 2016 compared to the prior year primarily due to the decreased gross profit discussed above. Fluids Division administrative cost levels decreased compared to the prior year, primarily due to $4.2 million of decreased salary and employee expenses due to administrative cost and salary reductions and decreased general, office, and other administrative expenses of $1.9 million. This increase was offset primarily by $1.2 million of increased legal and professional fees associated with litigation involving our El Dorado, Arkansas calcium chloride plant. In January 2017, we received a $12.8 million settlement award as a result of this litigation. The Fluids Division continues to review opportunities to further reduce its administrative costs. Partially offsetting the decreased gross profit, other income increased primarily due to increased foreign currency gains. 43 Production Testing Division Year Ended December 31, Period to Period Change 2016 2015 2016 vs 2015 % Change (In Thousands, Except Percentages) Revenues $ 63,618 $ 133,904 $ (70,286 ) (52.5 )% Gross profit (loss) (13,317 ) (3,046 ) (10,271 ) 337.2 % Gross profit (loss) as a percentage of revenue (20.9 )% (2.3 )% General and administrative expense 9,806 17,726 (7,920 ) (44.7 )% General and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue 15.4 % 13.2 % Goodwill impairment 13,871 37,562 (23,691 ) Interest (income) expense, net (594 ) (89 ) (505 ) Other (income) expense, net (929 ) (2,525 ) 1,596 Loss before taxes and discontinued operations $ (35,471 ) $ (55,720 ) $ 20,249 36.3 % Loss before taxes and discontinued operations as a percentage of revenue (55.8 )% (41.6 )% Production Testing Division revenues decreased significantly during 2016 compared to the prior year due to reduced overall market activity. Production Testing service revenues decreased $63.2 million during 2016 compared to the prior year, as the impact of lower oil and natural gas pricing has negatively impacted demand for services in each of the division's areas of operations, including certain shale reservoir markets that were a source of revenue growth during the past several years. Decreased U.S. demand reflects the significant decline in onshore rig count activity compared to the prior year. Although rig count activity has improved in early 2017 compared to 2016 levels, such activity levels are still significantly below early 2015 levels. In addition, increased competition for decreased market activity negatively affected pricing levels for services, particularly internationally. Production Testing product sales decreased $7.1 million , due to a sale of equipment that occurred during 2015. The Production Testing Division had an increased gross loss during 2016 compared to the prior year due to the decreased industry activity and increased competition as discussed above. This increase in Production Testing Division gross loss was realized despite $6.4 million of long-lived intangible asset impairments during 2016 compared to $12.3 million of long-lived asset impairments recorded during 2015. The increased gross loss occurred despite significant cost reduction efforts, which have included headcount reductions, salary reductions, and other steps to adjust the Production Testing Division's cost structure in light of current market conditions. The Production Testing Division reported a decreased pretax loss during 2016 compared to the prior year, primarily due to the reduced goodwill impairment recorded during 2016 compared to the prior year. We account for goodwill in accordance with ASC 350-20, and the impairments of goodwill reflect the significant decreases in future profitability and cash flows expected in the current market environment. General and administrative expenses also decreased due to $4.1 million of decreased general, office and bad debt expenses and $3.7 million of decreased employee-related expenses, primarily from reduced headcount, salary reductions, and other employee related cost reductions. The division continues to review additional opportunities to further reduce its operating and administrative cost levels in light of current market conditions. Other income decreased during 2016 compared to the prior year due to decreased gains on asset sales. 44 Compression Division Year Ended December 31, Period to Period Change 2016 2015 2016 vs 2015 % Change (In Thousands, Except Percentages) Revenues $ 311,374 $ 457,639 $ (146,265 ) (32.0 )% Gross profit 37,681 73,135 (35,454 ) (48.5 )% Gross profit as a percentage of revenue 12.1 % 16.0 % General and administrative expense 36,199 43,356 (7,157 ) (16.5 )% General and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue 11.6 % 9.5 % Goodwill impairment 92,334 139,444 (47,110 ) Interest (income) expense, net 38,055 34,964 3,091 CCLP Series A Preferred fair value adjustment 5,036 5,036 Other (income) expense, net 2,383 2,169 214 Income (loss) before taxes and discontinued operations $ (136,326 ) $ (146,798 ) $ 10,472 (7.1 )% Income (loss) before taxes and discontinued operations as a percentage of revenue (43.8 )% (32.1 )% Compression Division revenues decreased significantly during 2016 compared to the prior year due to reductions in both compressor sales and compression and related services revenues. Revenues from sales of compressor packages during 2016 decreased $69.7 million compared to the prior year due to a reduction in customer projects, particularly for high-horsepower compressor packages. The current reduced equipment fabrication backlog indicates that this decrease in compressor package sales revenues will continue going forward. The $76.6 million decrease in compression and related service revenues resulted primarily from the reduction in overall utilization in total horsepower as well as compression services pricing compared to the prior year. The decreased overall utilization has affected each horsepower class of the Compression Division's fleet, but has particularly decreased the demand for low-horsepower production enhancement compression services as a result of lower oil and natural gas commodity prices compared to the prior year. Compression Division gross profit decreased during 2016 compared to the prior year as a result of the lower demand for compressors and compression services discussed above. The Compression Division recorded $10.2 million of long-lived intangible asset impairments during 2016 compared to $12.3 million during 2015. Competitive pricing pressures and rate reduction requests in the current market environment have also resulted in reduced gross profit. During 2016, the Compression Division took additional steps to reduce its operating costs and improve operating efficiencies, and efforts to further adjust its cost structure will continue going forward. The impact of these cost reduction steps taken is expected to result in additional cost efficiencies in future periods. The Compression Division recorded a decreased pretax loss during 2016 compared to the prior year. The amount of the pretax loss for both years was significantly increased due to the impairments of goodwill pursuant to ASC 350-20. In addition to the decreased gross profit discussed above, other expense increased primarily due to the CCLP Preferred Units fair value adjustment of $5.0 million and $2.1 million of offering costs associated with the private placements of the CCLP Preferred Units that were issued during 2016. Changes in the fair value of the CCLP Preferred Units may generate additional volatility to our earnings going forward. Interest expense also increased primarily due to the paid in kind distributions on the CCLP Preferred Units and as a result of increased borrowings outstanding by CCLP under the CCLP Credit Agreement during 2016 compared to the prior year. Interest expense on the CCLP Senior Notes decreased beginning in late 2016 due to the repayment of $54.1 million face amount of CCLP Senior Notes in September and October of 2016. General and administrative expense levels decreased compared to the prior year, mainly due to $6.0 million of administrative salary reductions and decreased professional services of $0.8 million. 45 Offshore Division Offshore Services Segment Year Ended December 31, Period to Period Change 2016 2015 2016 vs 2015 % Change (In Thousands, Except Percentages) Revenues $ 77,525 $ 122,194 $ (44,669 ) (36.6 )% Gross profit (loss) (5,574 ) 10,602 (16,176 ) 152.6 % Gross profit as a percentage of revenue (7.2 )% 8.7 % General and administrative expense 6,454 10,689 (4,235 ) (39.6 )% General and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue 8.3 % 8.7 % Interest (income) expense, net Other (income) expense, net (3 ) 108 (111 ) Loss before taxes and discontinued operations $ (12,025 ) $ (195 ) $ (11,830 ) (6,066.7 )% Loss before taxes and discontinued operations as a percentage of revenue (15.5 )% (0.2 )% Revenues for the Offshore Services segment decreased during 2016 compared to the prior year primarily due to reduced revenues from its well abandonment, diving, heavy lift decommissioning, and diving services businesses. Decreased well abandonment, cutting and diving services activity levels in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico during 2016 reflected an overall reduction in demand in this market, due to a postponement of certain well abandonment projects. Given the current low oil and natural gas commodity price environment, Offshore Services anticipates a continued decrease in demand for its services for the foreseeable future. Offshore Services revenues during 2016 include work performed for our Maritech segment, with $0.9 million of such work being performed during 2016 compared to $5.1 million of revenues during the prior year. Revenues for work performed for Maritech, which are eliminated in consolidation, are expected to continue to be lower in future periods. The Offshore Services segment reported a gross loss during 2016 compared to gross profit during the prior year as the impact of decreased activity levels for well abandonment, cutting, and diving services as discussed above more than offset cost reduction measures and process efficiencies that have been implemented. In addition, the Offshore Services segment recorded a $1.1 million long-lived asset impairment during 2016. The Offshore Services segment continues to consider additional opportunities to optimize its operating cost structure. Offshore Services segment loss before taxes increased during 2016 compared to the prior year primarily due to the increased gross loss discussed above, and despite a reduction in general and administrative expenses, that was primarily from reduced headcount, salary and other employee related expenses of $2.2 million, decreased professional services of $0.4 million and other decreased general expenses of $1.6 million. The Offshore Services segment continues to review its administrative cost structure for additional cost reductions and process efficiency actions in response to current market conditions. 46 Maritech Segment Year Ended December 31, Period to Period Change 2016 2015 2016 vs 2015 % Change (In Thousands, Except Percentages) Revenues $ 751 $ 2,438 $ (1,687 ) (69.2 )% Gross profit (loss) (3,847 ) (2,523 ) (1,324 ) (52.5 )% General and administrative expense 1,087 1,281 (194 ) (15.1 )% General and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue 144.7 % 52.5 % Interest (income) expense, net 12 29 (17 ) (Gain) loss on sales of assets Other (income) expense, net (3,105 ) Loss before taxes and discontinued operations $ (1,841 ) $ (3,833 ) $ 1,992 52.0 % As a result of the sale of almost all of its producing properties during 2011 and 2012, Maritech revenues were negligible and are expected to continue to be negligible going forward. Revenue decreased compared to the prior year due to the lower production volumes and pricing and the suspension of production on one of Maritech's non-operated properties during a portion of 2016. Maritech reported an increased gross loss during 2016 compared to the prior year, primarily due to charges during the period for decommissioning costs incurred in prior periods no longer considered collectible from third parties. Maritech reported a decreased pretax loss during 2016 compared to the prior year as the gross loss as discussed above was more than offset by $3.1 million of Other Income resulting from receipt of funds previously held in escrow as part of a security on contingent abandonment obligations on sold properties. Corporate Overhead Year Ended December 31, Period to Period Change 2016 2015 2016 vs 2015 % Change (In Thousands, Except Percentages) Gross profit (loss) (primarily depreciation expense) $ (430 ) $ (913 ) $ 483 52.9 % General and administrative expense 34,767 52,189 (17,422 ) (33.4 )% Interest (income) expense, net 21,157 19,829 1,328 Other (income) expense, net 5,510 3,074 2,436 (Loss) before taxes and discontinued operations $ (61,864 ) $ (76,005 ) $ 14,141 18.6 % Corporate Overhead pretax loss decreased during 2016 compared to the prior year, due to decreased general and administrative expense, and despite increased interest expense and other expense. Corporate general and administrative expenses decreased due to $18.6 million of decreased salary, incentives and other employee related expenses. Decreased administrative salary expenses reflect the company-wide salary reduction steps taken, as well as decreased incentives. This decrease was also partially due to a $6.7 million immaterial correction adjustment to equity compensation that was recorded during 2015. The decrease in employee related expenses was partly offset by $0.7 million of increased professional service fees, and $0.5 million of increased general expenses. Corporate general and administrative expenses are net of certain amounts allocated to our Compression Division for services provided. Interest expense increased primarily due to increased interest expense of $3.4 million associated with the higher interest rate on our 11% Senior Note that was issued in November 2015. Following the use of proceeds from the December common stock offering to repay a portion of the outstanding balance of our revolving credit facility, interest expense is expected to be decreased going forward. Corporate other expenses increased compared to the prior year due to the $2.1 million fair value adjustment associated with the Warrants issued in December 2016 and the expensing of $1.8 million of deferred financing costs associated with the repayment of senior notes and senior secured notes. Changes in the fair value of the Warrants liability may gener 47 ate additional volatility to our earnings going forward. These increases more than offset the $0.6 million fair value gain adjustment of the CCLP Preferred Units held by us. 2015 Compared to 2014 Consolidated Comparisons Year Ended December 31, Period to Period Change 2015 2014 2015 vs 2014 % Change (In Thousands, Except Percentages) Revenues $ 1,130,145 $ 1,077,567 $ 52,578 4.9 % Gross profit 189,236 95,044 94,192 99.1 % Gross profit as a percentage of revenue 16.7 % 8.8 % General and administrative expense 157,812 142,689 15,123 10.6 % General and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue 14.0 % 13.2 % Goodwill impairment 177,006 64,295 112,711 Interest expense, net 54,477 34,966 19,511 55.8 % (Gain) loss on sale of assets (4,375 ) (11 ) (4,364 ) Other (income) expense, net 6,079 10,976 (4,897 ) Income (loss) before taxes and discontinued operations (201,763 ) (157,871 ) (43,892 ) Income (loss) before taxes and discontinued operations as a percentage of revenue (17.9 )% (14.7 )% Provision (benefit) for income taxes 7,704 9,704 (2,000 ) Income (loss) before discontinued operations (209,467 ) (167,575 ) (41,892 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes Net income (loss) (209,467 ) (167,575 ) (41,892 ) Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest 83,284 (2,103 ) 85,387 Net income (loss) attributable to TETRA stockholders $ (126,183 ) $ (169,678 ) $ 43,495 Consolidated revenues during 2015 increased compared to the prior year due to increased revenues for the Compression Division as a result of the CSI Acquisition. The impact of the CSI Acquisition, which resulted in the increased Compression Division revenues of approximately $175.1 million during 2015, greatly expanded the Division's operations, allowing it to participate in the compression market at a broader level. Each of our other segments reported decreased revenues, due to the impact of reduced oil and natural gas prices and the corresponding decrease in industry activity levels. Fluids Division revenues decreased, as decreased onshore water management services and manufactured product sales revenues more than offset the increased offshore completion services and CBF product sales revenues. Our Production Testing and Offshore Services segments reported significantly decreased revenues during 2015, primarily due to the impact of decreased industry demand and activity levels in each of the domestic and international markets we serve, largely caused by decreased oil and natural gas prices. See Divisional Comparisons section below for additional discussion. Consolidated gross profit increased during 2015 compared to the prior year, primarily due to the results of our Fluids and Offshore Services segments. The increase in Fluids Division gross profit was primarily due to the mix of CBF products and services, particularly for U.S. Gulf of Mexico completion fluids products and services and increased profitability from our manufactured products operations. Our Offshore Services segment reflected gross profit compared to a gross loss in the prior year, despite decreased revenues, largely as a result of cost reductions and efficiencies implemented in response to decreased activity levels, as well as due to significant impairments recorded during the prior year. Maritech had a reduced gross loss compared to the prior year due to decreased excess decommissioning costs during 2015. These increases in profitability were partially offset by the decreased profitability of our Production Testing and Compression Divisions compared to the prior year, as a result of a significant decrease in revenues and activity levels, as well as increased impairments of long-lived assets during 2015. 48 Consolidated general and administrative expenses increased during 2015 compared to the prior year due to the increase in Compression Division and Corporate Overhead administrative costs and despite cost reduction efforts. Compression Division administrative costs increased following the CSI Acquisition, despite approximately $8.7 million of transaction costs in the prior year, primarily related to the CSI Acquisition. In addition, Corporate Overhead administrative expenses also increased, primarily due to increased incentive and equity compensation. The increase in the Compression Division and Corporate Overhead general and administrative expenses was partially offset by decreased administrative costs for our Fluids, Production Testing, and Offshore Divisions, primarily as a result of cost reduction efforts by these segments. Following the fourth quarter of 2015, we performed an annual test of goodwill impairment in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 350-20 "Goodwill." The continuing decline in oil and natural gas commodity prices has had a continuing negative impact on industry drilling and capital expenditure activity, which affects the expected future demand for products and services of each of our reporting units. Specifically, demand for Compression Division's low-horsepower wellhead compression services and for sales of compressor equipment have decreased significantly. Demand for our Production Testing Division's services has also decreased as a result of decreased drilling and completion activity. This expected decreased demand, along with the decrease in the common unit price of our CCLP subsidiary, has also caused an overall reduction in the fair values of each of our reporting units, particularly our Compression and Production Testing reporting units. As part of the test of goodwill impairment, we estimated the fair value of each of our reporting units, and determined, based on these estimated values, that impairments of the goodwill of our Compression and Production Testing reporting units were necessary, primarily due to the market factors discussed above. Accordingly, during the fourth quarter of 2015, we recorded total impairment charges of $177.0 million associated with the goodwill of these reporting units. Consolidated interest expense increased due to increased borrowings, primarily from the increased borrowings by the Compression Division, through CCLP, primarily due to the CSI Acquisition. Consolidated interest expense levels going forward are expected to increase compared to the prior year periods as a result of the increased interest rate associated with the Series 2015 Senior Notes, which were issued in November 2015, and from increased CCLP borrowings associated with CCLP 2015 capital expenditure activity. Consolidated other expense was $6.1 million during 2015 compared to $11.0 million during the prior year. Other expense during the prior year includes $9.3 million of interim financing costs that were expensed in connection with the CSI Acquisition. Also included in net other expense during the prior year was a $5.7 million gain associated with the acquisition of the interest in TETRA Arabia that we did not previously own, partially offset by a $2.9 million charge associated with the settlement of the pre-existing relationship with the other shareholder during the prior year. Other expense during 2015 includes a $1.6 million "make-whole" prepayment premium associated with the early repayment of the Series 2006-A Senior Notes, and increased Compression Division financing cost amortization as a result of the financing for the CSI Acquisition. Despite the significant pre-tax loss for the year ended December 31, 2015, we recorded a provision for income tax during the year. Our 2015 effective tax rate of negative 3.8% was primarily a result of losses generated in entities for which no related tax benefit has been recorded. The losses generated by these entities do not result in tax benefits due to offsetting valuation allowances being recorded against their net deferred tax assets. We establish a valuation allowance to reduce the deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Further, the effective tax rate is impacted by the nondeductible portion of our goodwill impairments during 2015. 49 Divisional Comparisons Fluids Division Year Ended December 31, Period to Period Change 2015 2014 2015 vs 2014 % Change (In Thousands, Except Percentages) Revenues $ 424,046 $ 437,362 $ (13,316 ) (3.0 )% Gross profit 111,969 97,806 14,163 14.5 % Gross profit as a percentage of revenue 26.4 % 22.4 % General and administrative expense 32,576 35,625 (3,049 ) (8.6 )% General and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue 7.7 % 8.1 % Interest (income) expense, net (258 ) (250 ) (8 ) Other (income) expense, net (1,140 ) (2,274 ) 1,134 Income before taxes and discontinued operations $ 80,791 $ 64,705 $ 16,086 24.9 % Income before taxes and discontinued operations as a percentage of revenue 19.1 % 14.8 % Fluids Division revenues decreased during 2015 compared to the prior year as approximately $24.7 million of decreased services revenues was partially offset by $11.4 million of increased product sales revenues. Fluids Division service revenues decreased due to reduced onshore water management services revenues, reflecting the decreased activity levels in shale reservoir markets as a result of lower oil and natural gas prices compared to the prior year. Partially offsetting these decreased service revenues, offshore U.S. Gulf of Mexico completion services revenues increased due to well completion projects for a single customer using a new completion fluid technology introduced during 2015. The increase in product sales revenues was primarily attributable to increased CBF and associated product sales revenues, including the U.S. Gulf of Mexico well completion projects for a single customer using the new completion fluid technology discussed above. In addition, Fluids Division product sales revenues increased from market share gains for domestic offshore CBF and associated products. This increase in domestic offshore CBF and associated product sales revenues more than offset decreased international revenues from sales of CBF products and manufactured products. Fluids Division gross profit increased during2015 compared to the prior year, despite decreased revenue, primarily due to improved margins associated with the mix of CBF products and services, particularly for offshore completion fluids products and services associated with the new completion fluid technology projects discussed above. Manufactured products gross profit also increased, partially due to $2.6 million of insurance claim proceeds received and credited to earnings during2015. Cost reduction efforts also contributed to the improved gross profit during 2015 compared to the prior year. Fluids Division income before taxes increased during 2015 compared to the prior year, primarily due to the increased gross profit discussed above. Decreased Fluids Division other income was more than offset by decreased Fluids Division general and administrative costs due to administrative cost reductions, primarily associated with the decreased water management operations. Other income decreased due to a $2.7 million allocated portion of the remeasurement gain recorded in the prior year from our January 2014 acquisition of the remaining interest in TETRA Arabia from the fair value measurement of our previous investment in TETRA Arabia. No such gain was recorded in 2015, resulting in the decrease in other income. 50 Production Testing Division Year Ended December 31, Period to Period Change 2015 2014 2015 vs 2014 % Change (In Thousands, Except Percentages) Revenues $ 133,904 $ 192,894 $ (58,990 ) (30.6 )% Gross profit (3,046 ) 12,610 (15,656 ) (124.2 )% Gross profit as a percentage of revenue (2.3 )% 6.5 % General and administrative expense 17,726 20,512 (2,786 ) (13.6 )% General and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue 13.2 % 10.6 % Goodwill impairment 37,562 60,358 (22,796 ) Interest (income) expense, net (89 ) (31 ) (58 ) Other (income) expense, net (2,525 ) (2,061 ) (464 ) Income (loss) before taxes and discontinued operations $ (55,720 ) $ (66,168 ) $ 10,448 (15.8 )% Income (loss) before taxes and discontinued operations as a percentage of revenue (41.6 )% (34.3 )% Production Testing Division revenues decreased during 2015 compared to the prior year due to decreased overall market activity. Production Testing service revenues decreased approximately $66.0 million during 2015 compared to the prior year, as the impact of decreased oil and natural gas pricing has negatively impacted demand for services in each of our areas of operations, including certain shale reservoir markets that were a source of revenue growth during the past several years. Increased competition for decreased market activity negatively affected pricing levels for services, although the Division has successfully expanded its domestic customer base compared to the prior year. Decreased service revenues were partially offset by approximately $7.1 million of product sales revenues generated from the sale of equipment during 2015. Production Testing Division reported a gross loss during 2015 compared to a gross profit during the prior year due to the market conditions discussed above, including the negative impact of increased competition on pricing. Impairments of long-lived assets totaled approximately $12.3 million during compared to $14.5 million of impairments recorded during the prior year. These impairments were recorded for certain operating equipment due to expected decreased utilization, demand, and future cash flows. The 2015 gross loss occurred despite the impact of cost reduction efforts, which have included downsized field operations, headcount reductions, deferrals of wage increases, and other steps to adjust the Production Testing Division's cost structure in light of the current market conditions. In response to expected future decreased activity levels, we continue to review and implement additional cost reduction steps. Production Testing Division reported a decreased pretax loss compared to the prior year, primarily due to the decreased impairment of goodwill compared to the prior year. We account for goodwill in accordance with ASC 350-20, and the impairments of goodwill reflect the significant decreases in future profitability and cash flows expected in the current market environment. The Production Testing Division general and administrative expenses decreased during 2015 due to the impact of administrative cost reductions, which were partially offset by $3.3 million of increased bad debt expense. Other income increased due to increased gains on sales of assets, partly offset by increased foreign currency losses. 51 Compression Division Year Ended December 31, Period to Period Change 2015 2014 2015 vs 2014 % Change (In Thousands, Except Percentages) Revenues $ 457,639 $ 282,505 $ 175,134 62.0 % Gross profit 73,135 66,527 6,608 9.9 % Gross profit as a percentage of revenue 16.0 % 23.5 % General and administrative expense 43,356 31,969 11,387 35.6 % General and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue 9.5 % 11.3 % Goodwill impairment 139,444 139,444 Interest (income) expense, net 34,964 15,165 19,799 Other (income) expense, net 2,169 12,053 (9,884 ) Income before taxes and discontinued operations $ (146,798 ) $ 7,340 $ (154,138 ) (2,100.0 )% Income before taxes and discontinued operations as a percentage of revenue (32.1 )% 2.6 % Compression Division revenues increased $175.1 million during 2015 compared to the prior year due to the CSI Acquisition, which generated aggregate increased revenues of approximately $182.3 million during 2015. CSI compression and aftermarket services revenues generated approximately $119.4 million of increased compression service revenues during 2015 compared to the prior year. The increase in CSI revenues is primarily attributable to a full twelve months of activity in 2015 compared to approximately five months of activity in the prior year due to the August 4, 2014 acquisition date. This increase in service revenue was partially offset by decreased non-CSI service revenue of approximately $11.1 million, primarily due to decreased demand for low-horsepower production enhancement compression services as a result of lower oil and natural gas commodity prices. Revenues from sales of compressor packages and parts during 2015 increased $66.6 million compared to the prior year with $63.0 million of the increase related to sales of compressors and parts by CSI. The $3.6 million of increased sales of non-CSI compressors and parts was primarily generated by a large sale of low-horsepower compressor packages to a single customer in late 2015, although this sale will result in reduced compression service revenues from these packages going forward. Compression Division sales of compressor packages have decreased during the last half of 2015 due to reduced customer demand, as reflected by the current reduced fabrication backlog for CSI compressor packages. This decrease in demand due to reduced oil and natural gas prices is expected to continue going forward until such pricing improves. Compression Division gross profit increased during 2015 compared to the prior year due to the impact of the CSI Acquisition, which generated approximately $12.9 million of increased gross profit during 2015. The increase in gross profit was despite the impact of approximately $11.7 million of increased impairments of compressor package equipment and identified intangible assets. These asset impairments reflected the reduced fair values for these assets as a result of decreased expected future demand and cash flows due to low oil and natural gas prices. Gross profit was also negatively affected by the decreased activity level of our non-CSI operations as discussed above. CSI gross profit also includes approximately $74.7 million of depreciation and amortization expense, which reflects the impact of the allocation of the CSI Acquisition purchase price. The Compression Division has taken cost reduction steps including headcount reductions, deferrals of wage increases, and other efforts to reduce the cost of its fabrication and field operations and is continuing to review its cost structure for additional opportunities to improve profitability in the current operating environment. The Compression Division reflected a significant decrease in pretax earnings during 2015 compared to the prior year, primarily due to the impairment of a portion of Compression Division goodwill during the fourth quarter of 2015 pursuant to ASC 350-20. In addition, Compression Division interest expense increased significantly as a result of the issuance by CCLP of its 7.25% Senior Notes due 2022 (the "CCLP Senior Notes") and the increased borrowings by CCLP under the CCLP Credit Agreement to finance a portion of the purchase price of the CSI Acquisition during 2014. Compression Division administrative expense levels increased compared to the prior year, primarily due to the impact of the CSI Acquisition and the resulting increased corporate allocated costs, partly mitigated by certain administrative cost decreases and integration efficiencies. Other expense decreased, primarily 52 due to $9.3 million of interim financing commitment fees associated with the CSI Acquisition incurred in the prior year, partially offset by increased amortization of deferred finance costs during 2015. Offshore Division Offshore Services Segment Year Ended December 31, Period to Period Change 2015 2014 2015 vs 2014 % Change (In Thousands, Except Percentages) Revenues $ 122,194 $ 195,372 $ (73,178 ) (37.5 )% Gross profit 10,602 (10,314 ) 20,916 (202.8 )% Gross profit as a percentage of revenue 8.7 % (5.3 )% General and administrative expense 10,689 12,097 (1,408 ) (11.6 )% General and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue 8.7 % 6.2 % Goodwill impairment 3,936 (3,936 ) Interest (income) expense, net 36 (36 ) Other (income) expense, net 108 (132 ) 240 Income (loss) before taxes and discontinued operations $ (195 ) $ (26,251 ) $ 26,056 (99.3 )% Income (loss) before taxes and discontinued operations as a percentage of revenue (0.2 )% (13.4 )% Revenues for the Offshore Services segment decreased significantly during 2015 compared to the prior year due to decreased revenues from its diving, heavy lift services, and well abandonment businesses. Decreased diving and well abandonment activity levels in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico reflected an overall decrease in demand in this market, partly due to customers' postponements of certain potential well abandonment projects. Given the current decreased oil and natural gas price environment, the Offshore Services segment anticipates a continued decrease in demand for its services compared to 2014 levels for the foreseeable future. Offshore Services revenues during 2015 were also negatively affected by the reduction in work performed for our Maritech segment compared to the prior year, with $5.1 million of such work being performed during 2015 compared to $30.6 million of revenues during the prior year. Revenues for work performed for Maritech, which are eliminated in consolidation, are expected to continue to be lower in future periods. Gross profit for the Offshore Services segment increased during 2015 compared to a gross loss for the prior year despite the impact of decreased activity levels for diving, well abandonment, and heavy lift services as discussed above. Impairments of long-lived assets decreased approximately $13.7 million compared to the prior year due to impairments during 2014 of certain heavy lift and dive support vessels and associated equipment assets, as the fair values for these assets were negatively affected by the expected decreases in utilization and demand. In addition, cost reduction measures and process efficiencies that were implemented during 2015 and prior years, including reducing the size of the segment's vessel and equipment fleets, resulted in increased gross profit. The Offshore Services segment continues to consider additional opportunities to optimize its operating cost structure. The Offshore Services segment reported a decreased loss compared to the prior year due to the increased gross profit discussed above, decreased general and administrative expenses, and the goodwill impairment during the prior year. The Offshore Services segment continues to review its administrative cost structure and made additional headcount reductions and process efficiency actions during 2015. 53 Maritech Segment Year Ended December 31, Period to Period Change 2015 2014 2015 vs 2014 % Change (In Thousands, Except Percentages) Revenues $ 2,438 $ 4,722 $ (2,284 ) (48.4 )% Gross profit (loss) (2,523 ) (69,861 ) 67,338 96.4 % General and administrative expense 1,281 1,359 (78 ) (5.7 )% General and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue 52.5 % 28.8 % Interest (income) expense, net 29 11 18 (Gain) loss on sales of assets (77 ) 77 Other (income) expense, net Loss before taxes and discontinued operations $ (3,833 ) $ (71,154 ) $ 67,321 94.6 % As a result of the sale of almost all of its producing properties during 2011 and 2012, Maritech revenues were negligible and are expected to continue to be negligible going forward. Maritech recorded a decreased gross loss during 2015 compared to the prior year due to $270.1 million of decreased excess decommissioning costs charged to earnings during 2015 compared to 2014. Maritech recorded $2.7 million of excess decommissioning costs to expense during2015. Maritech pretax loss during 2015 decreased compared to the prior year, primarily due to the decreased gross loss discussed above. Corporate Overhead Year Ended December 31, Period to Period Change 2015 2014 2015 vs 2014 % Change (In Thousands, Except Percentages) Gross profit (loss) (primarily depreciation expense) $ (913 ) $ (1,725 ) $ 812 47.1 % General and administrative expense 52,189 41,139 11,050 26.9 % Interest (income) expense, net 19,829 20,034 (205 ) Other (income) expense, net 3,074 3,456 (382 ) Loss before taxes and discontinued operations $ (76,005 ) $ (66,354 ) $ (9,651 ) (14.5 )% Corporate Overhead pretax loss increased during 2015 compared to the prior year, primarily due to increased general and administrative expense. Corporate general and administrative costs increased, primarily due to $15.8 million of increased salary related expenses, primarily from increased incentive and equity compensation. The increase in equity compensation includes the impact of a $6.7 million immaterial correction adjustment. This increase in salary and related expenses was partially offset by approximately $3.4 million of increased costs allocated to other segments, $0.8 million of decreased professional fees, and $0.5 million decrease in employee expenses. Interest expense decreased due to decreased TETRA borrowings outstanding during2015, however, is expected to increase going forward following the November 2015 issuance of the Series 2015 Senior Notes. Liquidity and Capital Resources Due to the severely challenging market environment for a number of our businesses, our consolidated cash flows from operating activities decreased significantly during 2016 compared to the prior year. This decrease occurred as a result of a 38.5% decrease in consolidated revenues and 72.8% decrease in consolidated gross profit, and despite a number of mitigating factors, including the impact of cost reduction efforts and the focus on improved collections of customer accounts receivable compared to the prior year. We generated $53.0 million of consolidated operating cash flows during the year ended December 31, 2016 , with CCLP providing $61.4 million of 54 this consolidated total. We received $22.3 million of cash distributions from CCLP during the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to $30.5 million during the prior year. We believe the equity financing transactions and cost reduction steps we and CCLP have taken have enhanced our respective capital structures and operating cash flows and additional steps may be taken to further enhance operating cash flows in the future. Our ability to meet our financial obligations and fund future growth is dependent on future levels of consolidated operating cash flows and the availability of capital resources in uncertain operating and financial markets. Through common stock offerings concluded in June and December of 2016 that generated aggregate net proceeds of $168.3 million , we reduced our consolidated long-term debt balances outstanding (excluding CCLP long-term debt) from a carrying value of $286.6 million as of December 31, 2015 to $119.6 million as of December 31, 2016 , with no maturities due until September 2019. In addition, in July 2016 and December 2016, we entered into amendments to our long-term debt agreements, consisting of our Credit Agreement and our 11% Senior Note Agreement. As a result of these amendments, among other changes, certain financial covenants were favorably amended. For further discussion of the June and December 2016 common stock offerings and the amendments to our long-term debt agreements, see the Financing Activities section below. With regard to CCLP, through the August and September offerings of the CCLP Preferred Units, which generated aggregate net proceeds to CCLP of $76.9 million , CCLP reduced its long-term debt balances outstanding from a carrying value of $566.7 million as of December 31, 2015 to $504.1 million as of December 31, 2016 , with no maturities due until August 2019. In addition, in May and November 2016, CCLP entered into amendments to the CCLP Credit Agreement. As a result of these amendments, and among other changes, CCLP favorably amended certain financial covenants of the CCLP Credit Agreement. For further discussion of the August and September 2016 offerings of the CCLP Preferred Units and the amendments to the CCLP Credit Agreements, see the CCLP Financing Activities section below. We and CCLP are in compliance with all covenants of our respective credit agreements and senior note agreements as of December 31, 2016 . We have reviewed our financial forecasts for the twelve month period subsequent to March 1, 2017 . Based on our financial forecasts, which reflect certain operating and other business assumptions that we believe to be reasonable as of March 1, 2017 , we believe that despite the current industry environment and activity levels, we will have adequate liquidity, earnings, and operating cash flows to fund our operations and debt obligations and maintain compliance with our debt covenants through March 1, 2018. With regard to CCLP, also considering financial forecasts based on current market conditions as of March 1, 2017 , CCLP believes that it will have adequate liquidity, earnings, and operating cash flows to fund its operations and debt obligations and maintain compliance with the covenants under its long-term debt agreements through March 1, 2018. Our consolidated sources and uses of cash during the year ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 (In Thousands) Operating activities $ 53,980 $ 195,951 $ 108,645 Investing activities (14,256 ) (114,987 ) (967,739 ) Financing activities (30,954 ) (103,437 ) 871,644 Because of the level of consolidated debt, we believe it is important to consider our capital structure and CCLP's capital structure separately, as there are no cross default provisions, cross collateralization provisions, or cross guarantees between CCLP's debt and TETRA's debt. (See Financing Activities section below for a complete discussion of the terms of our and CCLP's respective debt arrangements.) Our consolidated debt outstanding has a carrying value of approximately $623.7 million as of December 31, 2016 . However, approximately $504.1 million of this consolidated debt balance is owed by CCLP and is serviced from the existing cash balances and cash flows of CCLP and secured by its assets. Through our 42% common unit ownership interest in CCLP and ownership of an approximately 2% general partner interest that includes incentive distribution rights, we receive our share of the distributable cash flows of CCLP through its quarterly cash distributions. Approximately $20.8 million of the $29.8 million of the cash balance reflected on our consolidated balance sheet is owned by CCLP and is not available to us. As of December 31, 2016 , CCLP had availability of approximately $85.0 million under the CCLP Credit 55 Agreement, subject to limitations pursuant to financial covenants, and we had availability of approximately $189.2 million under our Credit Agreement, also subject to limitations pursuant to financial covenants. Operating Activities Cash flows generated by operating activities totaled $54.0 million during 2016 compared to $196.0 million during the prior year, a decrease of $142.0 million or 62.9%. Operating cash flows decreased primarily due to decreased cash earnings compared to the prior year. We have taken steps to aggressively manage working capital, which resulted in increased collections of accounts receivable during 2016 compared to the prior year, despite decreased activity levels. In addition, we also are focused on managing inventory levels. We continue to monitor customer credit risk in the current environment and have historically focused on serving larger capitalized oil and gas operators and national oil companies. Demand for the vast majority of our products and services is driven by oil and gas industry activity, which is affected by oil and natural gas commodity pricing. The dramatic decreases in oil and natural gas prices in 2015 and throughout 2016, particularly oil prices, significantly reduced the capital expenditure and operating plans of our oil and natural gas customers, affecting each of our operating segments. The volatility of oil and natural gas prices is expected to continue in the future. Worldwide drilling activity related to oil and natural gas wells has decreased compared to early 2015, particularly affecting our Production Testing and Fluids Divisions. However, rig count activity improved during the last half of 2016, and in early 2017 rig count activity has further increased, although such activity levels are still significantly below early 2015 levels. Our Compression Division operations are also highly vulnerable to the impact of a sustained low natural gas price environment. If oil and gas industry activity levels remain at current levels or decrease in the future, we expect that our levels of operating cash flows will continue to be negatively affected. During 2016 , we have continued to take steps to reduce operating and administrative headcount, defer salary increases, reduce salaries, reduce workweek, and implement other cost reductions for each of our segments. These steps are designed to further streamline our operations and downsize our organization, particularly in response to continuing market challenges for certain of our businesses. Together with the specific cost reduction steps taken during prior periods, these cost reduction efforts have partially mitigated the decreased operating cash flows and profitability resulting from the current market environment. Although we have partially restored reduced salary levels in January 2017, we continue to review for other opportunities to reduce costs. As of December 31, 2016 , Maritech decommissioning liabilities associated with its remaining offshore oil and gas production wells, platforms, and facilities totaled approximately $45.6 million . Approximately $1.0 million of this amount is expected to be performed during 2017, with the timing of a portion of this work being discretionary. Until the remaining decommissioning liabilities are extinguished, our future operating cash flows will continue to be affected by Maritech decommissioning expenditures as they are incurred. Included in Maritech decommissioning liabilities is the remaining abandonment, decommissioning, and debris removal associated with an offshore platform that was previously destroyed by a hurricane as well as certain remediation work required on wells that were previously plugged. Due to the unique nature of the remaining work to be performed associated with these properties, actual costs could greatly exceed these estimates and could therefore result in significant charges to earnings in future periods. Asset retirement obligations are recorded in accordance with FASB ASC 410, whereby the estimated fair value of a liability for asset retirement obligations is recorded in the period in which it is incurred and in which a reasonable estimate can be made. Such estimates are based on relevant assumptions that we believe are reasonable. The cost estimates for Maritech asset retirement obligations are considered reasonable estimates consistent with market conditions at the time they are made, and we believe reflect the amount of work required to be performed in accordance with BSEE standards, as revised from time to time. The amount of work performed or estimated to be performed on a Maritech property asset retirement obligation often exceeds amounts previously estimated for numerous reasons including physical subsea, geological, or downhole conditions that are different from those anticipated at the time of estimation due to the age of the property and the quality of information available about the particular property conditions. Maritech remaining oil and gas properties and production platforms were drilled and constructed by other operators many years ago, and frequently there is not a great deal of detailed documentation on which to base the estimated asset retirement obligation for these properties. Appropriate underwater surveys are typically performed to determine the condition of such properties as part of our due diligence in estimating the costs, but not all conditions have been able to be 56 determined prior to the commencement of the actual work. During the performance of asset retirement activities, unforeseen weather or other conditions may also extend the duration and increase the cost of the projects, which are normally not done on a fixed price basis, thereby resulting in costs in excess of the original estimate. Maritech has one remaining property that was damaged by a hurricane in the past, leaving the production platform toppled on the seabed and production tubing from the wells (which may be under pressure) bent underwater. While the basic procedures involved in the plugging and abandonment of wells and decommissioning of platforms and pipelines and removal of debris is generally similar for these types of properties, the cost of performing work at these damaged locations is particularly difficult to estimate due to the unique conditions encountered, including the uncertainty regarding the extent of physical damage to many of the structures. In addition, Maritech has encountered situations where previously plugged and abandoned wells on its properties have later exhibited a buildup of pressure that is evidenced by gas bubbles coming from the plugged well head. We refer to this situation as wells under pressure , and this can either be discovered by us when we perform additional work at the property or by notification from a third party. Wells under pressure require Maritech to return to the site to perform additional plug and abandonment procedures that were not originally anticipated or included in the estimate of the asset retirement obligation for such property. Remediation work at previously abandoned well sites is particularly costly due to the lack of a platform from which to base these activities. Maritech is the last operator of record for its plugged wells and bears the risk of additional future work required as a result of wells becoming under pressure in the future. For oil and gas properties previously operated by Maritech, the purchaser of the properties generally became the successor operator and assumed the financial responsibilities associated with the properties operations and abandonment and decommissioning. However, to the extent that purchasers of these oil and gas properties fail to perform the abandonment and decommissioning work required and there is insufficient bonding or other security, the previous owners and operators of the properties, including Maritech, may be required to assume responsibility for the abandonment and decommissioning obligations. Investing Activities During 2016 , the total amount of our net cash utilized on investing activities was $14.3 million . Total cash capital expenditures during 2016 were $21.1 million . Approximately $2.3 million of our capital expenditures during 2016 was spent by our Fluids Division, the majority of which related to chemical plant improvements. Our Production Testing Division spent approximately $0.8 million on capital expenditures, primarily to add to its international production testing equipment fleet. Our Compression Division spent approximately $11.6 million , primarily for the expansion of its compressor and equipment fleet for its CSI subsidiary and for a system software development project. Our Offshore Services segment spent approximately $5.9 million on its various heavy lift barges and dive support vessels, primarily for required drydock expenditures. Generally, a significant majority of our planned capital expenditures has been related to identified opportunities to grow and expand certain of our existing businesses. However, certain of these planned expenditures have been, and may continue to be, postponed or canceled in an effort to conserve capital or otherwise address expected future market conditions. We currently have no long-term capital expenditure commitments and are reviewing all capital expenditure plans carefully during the current period of reduced demand for our products and services in an effort to conserve cash and fund our liquidity needs. The deferral of capital projects could affect our ability to compete in the future. Excluding the capital expenditures of our Compression Division, we expect to spend approximately $20 to $30 million during 2017. Our Compression Division expects to spend approximately $15 to $30 million during 2017. The level of future growth capital expenditures depends on forecasted demand for our products and services. If the forecasted demand for our products and services during 2017 increases or decreases, the amount of planned expenditures on growth and expansion will be adjusted accordingly. 57 Financing Activities During 2016 , the total amount of consolidated cash used by financing activities was $31.0 million . To fund our capital expenditure and working capital requirements, we may supplement our existing cash balances and cash flow from operating activities from short-term borrowings, long-term borrowings, leases, equity issuances, and other sources of capital. On March 23, 2016, we filed a universal shelf Registration Statement on Form S-3 with the Securities and Exchange Commission and it was declared effective on April 13, 2016. Pursuant to this registration statement and following the offerings described below, we have the ability to sell debt or equity securities in one or more public offerings up to an aggregate public offering price of $164.4 million. In June 2016, pursuant to this shelf registration statement, we completed an underwritten public offering of 11.5 million shares of our common stock, which included 1.5 million shares of common stock pursuant to an option granted to the underwriters to purchase additional shares, which generated aggregate net proceeds of $60.2 million . These proceeds were primarily used to repay outstanding indebtedness. In December 2016, we completed an underwritten offering of 22.3 million shares of our common stock at a price to the public of $5.15 per share ($4.9183 per share net of underwriting discounts) and the Warrants to purchase 11.2 million shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $5.75 per share prior to the 60-month expiration date of the Warrants. The 22.3 million shares of our common stock issued and the Warrants to purchase 11.2 million shares of our common stock includes 2.9 million shares of our common stock and Warrants to acquire an additional 1.5 million shares of our common stock related to the exercise of an option granted to the underwriters. We utilized the net offering proceeds of $109.7 million primarily to repay outstanding indebtedness. The Warrants were issued pursuant to a Warrant Agreement, dated December 14, 2016 and are exercisable immediately upon issuance and from time to time thereafter through and including the fifth year anniversary of the initial issuance date. At the request of a holder following a change of control, we or the successor entity will exchange such Warrant for consideration in accordance with a Black Scholes option pricing model in the form of, at our election, Rights (as defined in the Warrant Agreement) or cash. Similarly, within a period of time prior to the consummation of a change of control, we have the right to redeem all of the Warrants for cash in an amount determined in accordance with a Black-Scholes option pricing model. In August and September 2016, CCLP completed two private placements of CCLP Preferred Units for aggregate net proceeds of $66.9 million . We purchased a portion of the CCLP Preferred Units at the aggregate Issue Price of $10.0 million . The holders of the CCLP Preferred Units will receive quarterly distributions, which will be paid in kind in additional CCLP Preferred Units, equal to an annual rate of 11.00% of the Issue Price of $11.43 per CCLP Preferred Unit, subject to certain adjustments. A ratable portion of the CCLP Preferred Units will be converted into CCLP common units each month over a period of thirty months beginning in March 2017 (each, a Conversion Date ), subject to certain provisions of the Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of CCLP (the "Amended and Restated CCLP Partnership Agreement") that may delay or accelerate all or a portion of such monthly conversions. In September and October 2016, CCLP repurchased on the open market and retired $54.1 million principal amount of the CCLP 7.25% Senior Notes for a purchase price of $50.9 million , at an average repurchase price of 94% of the principal amount of such notes, plus accrued interest, utilizing a portion of the net proceeds of the sale of the Preferred Units. See CCLP Financing Activities below for discussion of the CCLP Preferred Units and CCLP's long-term debt. Our Long-Term Debt We are in compliance with all covenants and conditions under our long-term debt agreements as of December 31, 2016 . Deterioration of certain financial ratios could result in a default by us under our long-term debt agreements and, if not remedied, could result in termination of the associated debt agreements and acceleration of any outstanding balances. Our continuing ability to comply with these financial covenants depends largely upon our ability to generate adequate cash flow. Due to the decreased demand for certain of our products and services by our customers in response to decreased oil and natural gas prices, we have taken strategic cost reduction efforts, including headcount reductions, deferrals of wage increases, workweek reductions, wage reductions, and other efforts to reduce costs and generate cash to mitigate the reduced demand for our products and services. We believe the cost reduction steps taken, along with the common stock offering transactions described above, have enhanced our capital structure and operating cash flows and will continue to enhance our operating cash flows in the future. 58 Our Bank Credit Agreement . As of February 28, 2017 , TETRA (excluding CCLP) had an outstanding balance on our Credit Agreement, of $20.0 million , and had $5.0 million in letters of credit and guarantees against the revolving credit facility, leaving a net availability, subject to compliance with our covenants and other provisions of the Credit Agreement that limit borrowings under the Credit Facility, of $175.0 million . These amounts do not reflect the CCLP Credit Agreement, which is separate and distinct from TETRA's Credit Agreement, and is discussed further below. The Credit Agreement, as amended, matures on September 30, 2019 and limits aggregate lender commitments to $200 million. Borrowings generally bear interest at the British Bankers Association LIBOR rate plus 2.50% to 4.25%, depending on one of our financial ratios. We pay a commitment fee ranging from 0.35% to 1.00% on unused portions of the facility. All obligations under the Credit Agreement and the guarantees of such obligations are secured by first-lien security interests in substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries other than CCLP and its subsidiaries (limited, in the case of foreign subsidiaries, to 66% of the voting stock or equity interests of first-tier foreign subsidiaries). Such security interests are for the benefit of the lenders of the Credit Agreement as well as the holder of our 11% Senior Note. In addition, the Credit Agreement includes limitations on aggregate asset sales, individual acquisitions, and aggregate annual acquisitions and capital expenditures. Our Credit Agreement contains customary covenants and other restrictions, including certain financial ratio covenants based on our levels of debt and interest cost compared to a defined measure of our operating cash flows over a twelve month period. The Credit Agreement requires us to maintain (i) a fixed charge coverage ratio that may not be less than 1.25 to 1 as of the end of any fiscal quarter; and (ii) a consolidated leverage ratio that may not exceed (a) 5.00 to 1 at the end of fiscal quarters ending during the period from and including March 31, 2017 through and including December 31, 2017, (b) 4.75 to 1 at the end of fiscal quarters ending March 31, 2018 and June 30, 2018, (c) 4.50 to 1 at the end of fiscal quarters ending September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2018, and (d) 4.00 to 1 at the end of each of the fiscal quarters thereafter. Following an amendment to the Credit Agreement in December 2016 ("the Fifth Amendment"), no consolidated leverage ratio covenant is applicable for the fiscal quarter ending December 31, 2016. At December 31, 2016 , our consolidated leverage ratio was 3.47 to 1, compared to 1.86 to 1 at December 31, 2015. At December 31, 2016 , our fixed charge coverage ratio was 1.34 to 1, compared to 6.33 to 1 at December 31, 2015. Deterioration of these financial ratios could result in a default by us under the Credit Agreement that, if not remedied, could result in termination of the Credit Agreement and acceleration of any outstanding balances. Any such default could also result in a cross-default under our 11% Senior Note. CCLP is an unrestricted subsidiary and is not a borrower or a guarantor under the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement includes cross-default provisions relating to any other indebtedness (excluding indebtedness of CCLP) greater than a defined amount. The Credit Agreement also contains a covenant that restricts us from paying dividends in the event of a default or if such payment would result in an event of default. Our Senior Notes 11% Senior Note. As of December 31, 2016, our senior notes consist of the 11% Senior Note that was issued and sold in November 2015 pursuant to our 11% Senior Note Purchase Agreement with GSO Tetra Holdings LP ("GSO") whereby we issued and sold $125.0 million in principal amount of our 11% Senior Note (the "11% Senior Note"). The 11% Senior Note bears interest at the fixed rate of 11.0% and mature on November 5, 2022 . Interest on the 11% Senior Note is due quarterly on March 15, June 15, September 15, and December 15 of each year. We may prepay the 11% Senior Note, in whole or in part at a prepayment price equal to (i) prior to November 20, 2018, 100% of the principal amount so prepaid, plus accrued and unpaid interest and a make-whole prepayment amount, (ii) during the period commencing on November 20, 2018, and ending on November 19, 2019, 104% of the principal amount so prepaid, plus accrued and unpaid interest, (iii) during the period commencing on November 20, 2019 and ending on November 19, 2020, 102% of the principal amount so prepaid, plus accrued and unpaid interest, (iv) during the period commencing on November 20, 2020, and ending on November 19, 2021, 101% of the principal amount so prepaid, plus accrued and unpaid interest, and (v) on or after November 20, 2021, 100% of the principal amount so prepaid, plus accrued and unpaid interest. The 11% Senior Note is guaranteed by substantially all of our wholly owned U.S. subsidiaries. The 11% Senior Note Agreement contains customary covenants that limit our ability and the ability of certain of our restricted subsidiaries to, among other things: incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; incur or create liens; merge or consolidate or sell substantially all of our assets; engage in a different business; enter into transactions with affiliates; and make certain payments. In addition, the 11% Senior Note Agreement requires us to maintain certain financial ratios, including a maximum leverage ratio (ratio of debt and letters of credit outstanding to a defined measure of earnings). The maximum leverage ratio is further defined in our 11% Senior Note Agreement. 59 Consolidated net earnings under the 11% Senior Note Agreement is the aggregate of our net income (or loss) and our consolidated restricted subsidiaries, including cash dividends and distributions (not the return of capital) received from persons other than consolidated restricted subsidiaries (such as CCLP) and after allowances for taxes for such period determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), excluding certain items more specifically described therein. CCLP is an unrestricted subsidiary and is not a borrower or a guarantor under our 11% Senior Note Agreement. The 11% Senior Note Agreement includes cross-default provisions relating to other indebtedness (excluding indebtedness of CCLP) greater than a defined amount. Upon the occurrence and during the continuation of an event of default under the 11% Senior Note Agreement, the 11% Senior Note may become immediately due and payable, either automatically or by declaration of holders of more than 50% in principal amount of the 11% Senior Note at the time outstanding. On July 1, 2016, we entered into an Amended and Restated Note Purchase Agreement (the "Amended and Restated 11% Senior Note Agreement") with GSO to amend and replace the previous note purchase agreement. The Amended and Restated 11% Senior Note Agreement, as subsequently amended on December 22, 2016, contains customary default provisions, as well as cross-default provisions. In addition, the Amended and Restated 11% Senior Note Agreement requires a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio at the end of any fiscal quarter of 1.25 to 1 and allows a maximum ratio of consolidated funded indebtedness at the end of any fiscal quarter of a defined measure of earnings ("EBITDA") of (a) 5.00 to 1 as of the end of any fiscal quarter ending during the period commencing March 31, 2017 and ending December 31, 2017, (b) 4.75 to1 as of the end of any fiscal quarter ending March 31, 2018 and June 30, 2018 and (c) 4.50 to 1 as of the end of any fiscal quarter ending September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2018, and (d) 4.00 to 1 at the end of fiscal quarters ending thereafter. The Amended and Restated 11% Senior Note Agreement, as amended, provides that no consolidated funded indebtedness to a defined measure of earnings ratio is applicable for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2016. Pursuant to the Amended and Restated 11% Senior Note Agreement, the 11% Senior Note is secured by first-lien security interests in substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries. See the above discussion of our Credit Agreement for a description of these security interests. The 11% Senior Note is pari passu in right of payment with all borrowings under the Credit Agreement and ranks at least pari passu in right of payment with all other outstanding indebtedness. At December 31, 2016 , our consolidated funded indebtedness to EBITDA ratio was 3.47 to 1, (compared to 1.86 to 1 at December 31, 2015) and our fixed charge coverage ratio was 1.34 to 1 (compared to a 1.25 minimum required under the Amended and Restated 11% Senior Note Agreement). CCLP is an unrestricted subsidiary and is not a borrower or a guarantor under our Amended and Restated 11% Senior Note Agreement. Other Senior Notes . In May 2016, and pursuant to tender offers (the 2016 Tender Offers ) to purchase for cash any and all of the outstanding Series 2010-A Senior Notes, Series 2010-B Senior Notes, and Series 2013 Senior Notes (together the "Tender Offer Senior Notes"), we purchased Tender Offer Senior Notes in an aggregate principal amount of $100.0 million , representing the total outstanding principal amount of the Tender Offer Senior Notes. On April 30, 2015, we issued and sold $50.0 million aggregate principal amount of Senior Secured Notes due April 1, 2017 (the "Senior Secured Notes"). Prior to June 2016, we repaid an aggregate of $20.0 million of the amount outstanding under the Senior Secured Notes. In June 2016, and following the issuance of 11.5 million shares of our common stock, we utilized a portion of the $60.4 million of net proceeds to repay the remaining $30.0 million outstanding under our Senior Secured Notes. CCLP Financing Activities CCLP Preferred Units . On August 8, 2016 and September 20, 2016 , CCLP entered into Series A Preferred Unit Purchase Agreements (the Unit Purchase Agreements ) with certain purchasers to issue and sell in private placements (the "Initial Private Placement" and "Subsequent Private Placement") of an aggregate of 6,999,126 of CSI Compressco LP Series A Convertible Preferred Units representing limited partner interests in CCLP (the CCLP Preferred Units ) for a cash purchase price of $11.43 per CCLP Preferred Unit (the Issue Price ), resulting in total net proceeds to CCLP, after deducting certain offering expenses, of $76.9 million . We purchased 874,891 of the CCLP Preferred Units in the Initial Private Placement at the aggregate Issue Price of $10.0 million . The net proceeds from the Initial Private Placement and Subsequent Private Placement were used to pay additional offering 60 expenses and reduce outstanding CCLP indebtedness under the CCLP Credit Agreement and the CCLP 7.25% Senior Notes. Pursuant to the Unit Purchase Agreement, in connection with the closing, CSI Compressco GP Inc. (our wholly owned subsidiary) executed the Amended and Restated CCLP Partnership Agreement to, among other things, authorize and establish the rights and preferences of the CCLP Preferred Units. The CCLP Preferred Units are a new class of equity security that will rank senior to all classes or series of equity securities of CCLP with respect to distribution rights and rights upon liquidation. We and the other holders of CCLP Preferred Units (each, a CCLP Preferred Unitholder ) will receive quarterly distributions, which will be paid in kind in additional CCLP Preferred Units, equal to an annual rate of 11.00% of the Issue Price ($1.2573 per unit annualized), subject to certain adjustments, divided by the $11.43 Issue Price. The rights of the CCLP Preferred Units include certain anti-dilution adjustments, including adjustments for economic dilution resulting from the issuance of common units in the future below a set price. A ratable portion of the CCLP Preferred Units will be converted into CCLP common units each month over a period of thirty months beginning in March 2017 (each, a Conversion Date ), subject to certain provisions of the Amended and Restated CCLP Partnership Agreement that may delay or accelerate all or a portion of such monthly conversions. On each Conversion Date, the CCLP Preferred Units will convert into common units representing limited partner interests in CCLP in an amount equal to, with respect to each CCLP Preferred Unitholder, the number of CCLP Preferred Units held by such CCLP Preferred Unitholder divided by the number of Conversion Dates remaining, subject to adjustment described in the Amended and Restated CCLP Partnership Agreement, with the conversion price determined by the trading prices of the common units over the prior month, among other factors, and as otherwise impacted by the existence of certain conditions related to the common units. CCLP may, at its option, pay cash, or a combination of cash and common units, to the CCLP Preferred Unitholders instead of issuing common units on any Conversion Date, subject to certain restrictions as described in the Amended and Restated CCLP Partnership Agreement and the CCLP Credit Agreement. In addition, each purchaser may convert its CCLP Preferred Units, generally on a one-for-one basis and subject to adjustment for certain splits, combinations, reclassifications or other similar transactions and certain anti-dilution adjustments, in whole or in part, at any time following May 31, 2017 so long as any conversion is not for less than $250,000 or such lesser amount, if such conversion relates to all of such purchaser remaining CCLP Preferred Units. CCLP has the right to be reimbursed for any cash distributions paid with respect to common units issued in any such optional conversion until March 31, 2018. The CCLP Preferred Units will vote on an as-converted basis with the common units and will have certain other rights to vote as a class with respect to any amendment to the Amended and Restated CCLP Partnership Agreement that would affect any rights, preferences or privileges of the CCLP Preferred Units, as more fully described in the Amended and Restated CCLP Partnership Agreement. In addition, the CCLP Unit Purchase Agreements include certain provisions regarding change of control, transfer of CCLP Preferred Units, indemnities, and other matters described in detail in the CCLP Unit Purchase Agreements. The CCLP Unit Purchase Agreements contain customary representations, warranties and covenants of CCLP and the purchasers CCLP Long-Term Debt CCLP Bank Credit Facility . As of February 28, 2017 , CCLP has a balance outstanding under the CCLP Credit Agreement of $241.0 million , has $2.3 million letters of credit and performance bonds outstanding, and subject to provisions in the CCLP Credit Agreement that limit borrowings under the CCLP Credit Agreement, has availability under the CCLP Credit Agreement of $71.7 million . The CCLP Credit Agreement matures on August 4, 2019 and includes a maximum credit commitment of $315.0 million, and included within such amount is availability for letters of credit (with a sublimit of $20.0 million) and swingline loans (with a sublimit of $60.0 million). As a result of the amendment to the CCLP Credit Agreement in November 2016 (the "CCLP Fourth Amendment"), the CCLP Credit Agreement is now an asset-based facility. The amount of borrowings under the CCLP Credit Agreement is subject to certain limitations, including a borrowing base calculation based on components of accounts receivable, inventory, and equipment, as well as subject to compliance with the covenants and other provisions in the CCLP Credit Agreement that may limit borrowings. Borrowings under the CCLP Credit Agreement generally bear interest at a rate per annum equal to, at CCLP's option, either (a) LIBOR (adjusted to reflect any required bank reserves) plus a leverage based margin that ranges between 2.00% and 3.25% per annum or (b) a base rate plus a leverage-based margin that ranges between 1.00% and 2.25% per annum; in each case according to the applicable 61 consolidated total leverage ratio. CCLP pays a commitment fee ranging from 0.375% to 0.50% per annum on the unused portion of the facility, Under the CCLP Credit Agreement, CCLP and CSI Compressco Sub, Inc. are named as the borrowers and all obligations under the CCLP Credit Agreement are guaranteed by all of CCLP's existing and future, direct and indirect, domestic restricted subsidiaries (other than domestic subsidiaries that are wholly owned by foreign subsidiaries), and secured by substantially all of CCLP's assets and the assets of its domestic subsidiaries. We are not a borrower or a guarantor under the CCLP Credit Agreement. The CCLP Credit Agreement requires CCLP to maintain (i) a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio as of each quarter end period (defined ratio of consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization ("EBITDA") to consolidated interest charges) of (a) 2.25 to 1 as of the fiscal quarters ended September 30, 2016 through June 30, 2018; (b) 2.50 to 1 as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2018; and (c) 2.75 to 1 as of March 31, 2019 and thereafter, (ii) a maximum consolidated total leverage ratio (ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA ) of (a) 5.75 to 1 as of September 30, 2016; (b) 5.95 to 1 as of December 31, 2016 through June 30, 2018; (c) 5.75 to 1 as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2018; and (d) 5.50 to 1 as of March 31, 2019 and thereafter, and (iii) a maximum consolidated secured leverage ratio (consolidated secured indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA) of (a) 3.25 to 1 as of September 30, 2016 through June 30, 2018; and (b) 3.50 to 1 as of September 30, 2018 and thereafter, calculated on a trailing four quarters basis. At December 31, 2016 , CCLP's consolidated total leverage ratio was 5.40 to 1, its consolidated secured leverage ratio was 2.35 to 1, and its interest coverage ratio was 3.13 to 1. Deterioration of these financial ratios could result in a default by CCLP under the CCLP Credit Agreement that, if not remedied, could result in termination of the CCLP Credit Agreement and acceleration of any outstanding balances. Any such default could also result in a cross-default under the CCLP 7.25% Senior Notes. The consolidated total leverage ratio and the consolidated secured leverage ratio, as both are calculated under the CCLP Credit Agreement, exclude the long-term liability for the CCLP Preferred Units in the determination of total indebtedness. The CCLP Credit Agreement includes other customary covenants that, among other things, limit CCLP's ability to incur additional debt, incur, or permit certain liens to exist, or make certain loans, investments, acquisitions, or other restricted payments. In addition, the CCLP Credit Agreement requires that, among other conditions, CCLP use designated consolidated cash and cash equivalent balances in excess of $35.0 million to prepay the loans; allows the prepayment or purchase of indebtedness with proceeds from the issuances of equity securities or in exchange for the issuances of equity securities; and restricts the amount of CCLP's permitted capital expenditures in the ordinary course of business during each fiscal year ranging from $25.0 million in 2016 to $75.0 million in 2019. The CCLP Credit Agreement provides that CCLP can make distributions to holders of its common units, but only if there is no default or event of default under the facility and CCLP maintains excess availability of $30.0 million under the CCLP Credit Agreement. CCLP 7.25% Senior Notes . The obligations under the CCLP 7.25% Senior Notes are jointly and severally and fully and unconditionally, guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by each of CCLP domestic restricted subsidiaries (other than CSI Compressco Finance) that guarantee CCLP other indebtedness (the "Guarantors" and together with the Issuers, the "Obligors"). The CCLP 7.25% Senior Notes and the subsidiary guarantees thereof (together, the "CCLP Securities") were issued pursuant to an indenture described below. The Obligors issued the CCLP Securities pursuant to the Indenture dated as of August 4, 2014 (the "Indenture") by and among the Obligors and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee"). The CCLP Senior Notes accrue interest at a rate of 7.25% per annum. Interest on the CCLP 7.25% Senior Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on February 15 and August 15 of each year. The CCLP 7.25% Senior Notes are scheduled to mature on August 15, 2022. The Indenture contains customary covenants restricting CCLP ability and the ability of its restricted subsidiaries to: (i) pay dividends and make certain distributions, investments and other restricted payments; (ii) incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; (iii) create certain liens; (iv) sell assets; (v) merge, consolidate, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets; (vi) enter into transactions with affiliates; and (vii) designate its subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries under the Indenture. The Indenture also contains customary events of default and acceleration provisions relating to such events of default, which provide that upon an event of default under the Indenture, the Trustee or the holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the CCLP 7.25% Senior Notes then outstanding may declare all amounts owing under the CCLP 7.25% Senior Notes to be due and payable. CCLP is in compliance with all covenants of the CCLP Senior Note Purchase Agreement as of December 31, 2016 . 62 During September and October 2016, CCLP repurchased on the open market and retired $54.1 million aggregate principal amount of its CCLP 7.25% Senior Notes for a purchase price of $50.9 million , at an average repurchase price of 94% of the principal amount of such notes, plus accrued interest, utilizing a portion of the net proceeds of the sale of the CCLP Preferred Units. Following the repurchase of these CCLP 7.25% Senior Notes, $295.9 million aggregate principal amount of CCLP 7.25% Senior Notes remain outstanding. Other Sources and Uses In addition to the aforementioned revolving credit facilities, we and CCLP fund our respective short-term liquidity requirements from cash generated by our respective operations, leases, and from short-term vendor financing. Should additional capital be required, we believe that we have the ability to raise such capital through the issuance of additional debt or equity. However, instability or volatility in the capital markets at the times we need to access capital may affect the cost of capital and the ability to raise capital for an indeterminable length of time. TETRA's Credit Agreement, as amended, matures in September 2019, the CCLP Credit Agreement matures in August 2019, TETRA's 11% Senior Note matures in November 2022, and the CCLP Senior Notes mature in August 2022. The replacement of these capital sources at similar or more favorable terms is not certain. If it is necessary to issue additional equity to fund our capital needs, additional dilution to our common stockholders will occur. Although near-term growth plans have been suspended and are subject to our efforts to conserve cash and rationalize our cost structure during the current period of low oil and natural gas prices, we maintain a long-term growth strategy for our core businesses. CCLP has also temporarily suspended many of its capital expenditure projects. CCLP's long-term growth objectives are funded from cash available under its credit facilities, other borrowings, cash generated from the issuance of its common units, as well as its available cash. On March 23, 2016, we filed a universal shelf Registration Statement on Form S-3 with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). On April 13, 2016, the Registration Statement on Form S-3 was declared effective by the SEC. Pursuant to this registration statement, we have the ability to sell debt or equity securities in one or more public offerings up to an aggregate public offering price of $164.4 million. This shelf registration statement currently provides us additional flexibility with regard to potential financings that we may undertake when market conditions permit or our financial condition may require. As part of our long-term strategic growth plans, we will evaluate opportunities to acquire businesses and assets that may involve the payment of cash. Such acquisitions may be funded with existing cash balances, funds under credit facilities, or cash generated from the issuance of equity or debt securities. CCLP Partnership Agreement requires that within 45 days after the end of each quarter, it distribute all of its available cash, as defined in the Partnership Agreement, to its unitholders of record on the applicable record date. During the year ended December 31, 2016 , CCLP distributed approximately $51.3 million , including approximately $29.0 million to its public unitholders. The amount of quarterly distributions is determined based on a variety of factors, including estimates of CCLP's cash needs to fund its future operating, investing, and debt service requirements. During the current period of low oil and natural gas pricing, there can be no assurance that quarterly distributions from CCLP will increase from this reduced amount per unit, or that there will not be future decreases in the amount of distributions going forward. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements An off balance sheet arrangement is defined as any contractual arrangement to which an entity that is not consolidated with us is a party, under which we have, or in the future may have: any obligation under a guarantee contract that requires initial recognition and measurement under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles; a retained or contingent interest in assets transferred to an unconsolidated entity or similar arrangement that serves as credit, liquidity, or market risk support to that entity for the transferred assets; any obligation under certain derivative instruments; or any obligation under a material variable interest held by us in an unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support to us, or engages in leasing, hedging, or research and development services with us. 63 As of December 31, 2016 and 2015 , we had no off balance sheet arrangements that may have a current or future material effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. For a discussion of operating leases, including the lease of our corporate headquarters facility, see Note D Leases in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Commitments and Contingencies Litigation We are named defendants in several lawsuits and respondents in certain governmental proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. While the outcome of lawsuits or other proceedings against us cannot be predicted with certainty, management does not consider it reasonably possible that a loss resulting from such lawsuits or other proceedings in excess of any amounts accrued has been incurred that is expected to have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. On March 18, 2011, we filed a lawsuit in the Circuit Court of Union County, Arkansas, asserting claims of professional negligence, breach of contract and other claims against the engineering firm we hired for engineering design, equipment, procurement, advisory, testing and startup services for our El Dorado, Arkansas chemical production facility. The engineering firm disputed our claims and promptly filed a motion to compel the matter to arbitration. After a lengthy procedural dispute in Arkansas state court, we initiated arbitration proceedings on November 15, 2013. Ultimately, on December 16, 2016, the arbitration panel ruled in our favor, declared us as the prevailing party, and awarded us a total net amount of $12.8 million. We received full payment of the $12.8 million final award on January 5, 2017. Environmental One of our subsidiaries, TETRA Micronutrients, Inc. (TMI), previously owned and operated a production facility located in Fairbury, Nebraska. TMI is subject to an Administrative Order on Consent issued to American Microtrace, Inc. (n/k/a/ TETRA Micronutrients, Inc.) in the proceeding styled In the Matter of American Microtrace Corporation , EPA I.D. No. NED00610550, Respondent, Docket No. VII-98-H-0016, dated September 25, 1998 (the Consent Order), with regard to the Fairbury facility. TMI is liable for ongoing environmental monitoring at the Fairbury facility under the Consent Order; however, the current owner of the Fairbury facility is responsible for costs associated with the closure of that facility. While the outcome cannot be predicted with certainty, management does not consider it reasonably possible that a loss in excess of any amounts accrued has been incurred or is expected to have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. Product Purchase Obligations In the normal course of our Fluids Division operations, we enter into supply agreements with certain manufacturers of various raw materials and finished products. Some of these agreements have terms and conditions that specify a minimum or maximum level of purchases over the term of the agreement. Other agreements require us to purchase the entire output of the raw material or finished product produced by the manufacturer. Our purchase obligations under these agreements apply only with regard to raw materials and finished products that meet specifications set forth in the agreements. We recognize a liability for the purchase of such products at the time we receive them. As of December 31, 2016 , the aggregate amount of the fixed and determinable portion of the purchase obligation pursuant to our Fluids Division supply agreements was approximately $127.1 million , extending through 2029. 64 Other Contingencies During 2011, in connection with the sale of a significant majority of Maritech's oil and gas producing properties, the buyers of the properties assumed the associated decommissioning liabilities pursuant to the purchase and sale agreements. For those oil and gas properties Maritech previously operated, the buyers of the properties assumed the financial responsibilities associated with the properties' operations, including abandonment and decommissioning, and generally became the successor operator. Some buyers of these Maritech properties subsequently sold certain of these properties to other buyers who also assumed these financial responsibilities associated with the properties' operations, and these buyers also typically became the successor operator of the properties. To the extent that a buyer of these properties fails to perform the abandonment and decommissioning work required, the previous owner, including Maritech, may be required to perform the abandonment and decommissioning obligation. A significant portion of the decommissioning liabilities that were assumed by the buyers of the Maritech properties in 2011 remains unperformed, and we believe the amounts of these remaining liabilities are significant. We monitor the financial condition of the buyers of these properties from Maritech, and if current oil and natural gas pricing levels continue, we expect that one or more of these buyers may be unable to perform the decommissioning work required on the properties acquired from Maritech. During 2015, continued low oil and natural gas prices have resulted in reduced revenues and cash flows for all oil and gas producing companies, including those companies that bought Maritech properties in the past. Certain of these oil and gas producing companies that bought Maritech properties are currently experiencing severe financial difficulties. With regard to certain of these properties, Maritech has security in the form of bonds or cash escrows that are intended to secure the buyers' obligations to perform the decommissioning work. One company that bought, and subsequently resold, Maritech properties filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in August 2015. Maritech and its legal counsel continue to monitor the status of these companies. As of December 31, 2016 , we do not consider the likelihood of Maritech becoming liable for decommissioning liabilities on sold properties to be probable. Contractual Obligations The table below summarizes our consolidated contractual cash obligations as of December 31, 2016 : Payments Due Total 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Thereafter (In Thousands) Long-term debt - TETRA $ 119,640 $ $ $ 3,229 $ $ $ 116,411 Long-term debt - CCLP 504,090 217,467 286,623 Interest on debt - TETRA 79,042 13,471 13,471 13,419 13,262 13,262 12,157 Interest on debt - CCLP 140,643 28,873 28,873 26,321 21,216 21,216 14,144 Purchase obligations 127,059 13,603 9,478 9,478 9,450 9,450 75,600 Decommissioning and other asset retirement obligations (1) 55,478 1,451 22,793 17,889 3,920 9,425 Operating and capital leases 89,815 16,455 10,258 7,933 7,208 6,814 41,147 Total contractual cash obligations (2) $ 1,115,767 $ 73,853 $ 84,873 $ 295,736 $ 55,056 $ 50,742 $ 555,507 (1) We have estimated the timing of these payments for decommissioning liabilities based upon our plans and the plans of outside operators, which are subject to many changing variables, including the estimated life of the producing oil and gas properties, which is affected by changing oil and gas commodity prices. The amounts shown represent the undiscounted obligation as of December 31, 2016 . (2) Amounts exclude other long-term liabilities reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheet that do not have known payment streams. These excluded amounts include approximately $3.9 million of liabilities under FASB Codification Topic 740, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, as we are unable to reasonably estimate the ultimate amount or timing of settlements. See Note E Income Taxes, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. These excluded amounts also include approximately $77.1 million of liabilities related to the CCLP Series A Convertible Preferred Units. The preferred units are expected to be serviced and satisfied with non-cash paid-in-kind distributions and conversions to CCLP common units. See "Note H-CCLP Series A Convertible Preferred Units," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. New Accounting Pronouncements 65 For a discussion of new accounting pronouncements that may affect our consolidated financial statements, see "Note B - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, New Accounting Pronouncements ," contained in this Annual Report. 
