CIK: 927066
Company Name: DAVITA INC 
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2025-02-13
Accession Number: 0000927066-25-000012


Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-looking statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including this Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains statements that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws and as such are intended to be covered by the safe harbor for "forward-looking statements" provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements could include, among other things, statements about our balance sheet and liquidity, our expenses, revenues, billings and collections, patient census, availability or cost of supplies, including without limitation the impact of any reduction in clinical and other supplies due to any disruptions experienced by third party vendors, including with respect to our ability to provide home dialysis services, treatment volumes, mix expectation, such as the percentage or number of patients under commercial insurance, the effects on us and our operations of any interruptions in key functions performed by our third party service providers or suppliers, current macroeconomic, marketplace and labor market conditions, and overall impact on our patients and teammates, as well as other statements regarding our future operations, financial condition and prospects, capital allocation plans, expenses, cost saving initiatives, other strategic initiatives, use of contract labor, government and commercial payment rates, expectations related to value-based care (VBC), integrated kidney care (IKC), Medicare Advantage (MA) plan enrollment and our international operations, expectations regarding increased competition and marketplace changes, including those related to new or potential entrants in the dialysis and pre-dialysis marketplace and the potential impact of innovative technologies, drugs, or other treatments on the dialysis industry, and expectations regarding our stock repurchase program. All statements in this report, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, statements including the words "expect," "intend," "will," "could," "plan," "anticipate," "believe" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on DaVita's current expectations and are based solely on information available as of the date of this report. DaVita undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of changed circumstances, new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required by law. Actual future events and results could differ materially from any forward-looking statements due to numerous factors that involve substantial known and unknown risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include, among other things: external conditions, including those related to general economic, marketplace and global health conditions, including without limitation, the impact of global events and political or governmental volatility; the impact of the domestic political environment and related developments on the current healthcare marketplace, our patients and on our business; the continuing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our financial condition and the chronic kidney disease (CKD) population and our patient population; supply chain challenges and disruptions, including without limitation with respect to certain key services, critical clinical supplies and equipment we obtain from third parties, and including any impacts on our supply chain as a result of natural disasters; the potential impact of new or potential entrants in the dialysis and pre-dialysis marketplace and potential impact of innovative technologies, drugs, or other treatments on our patients and industry; elevated teammate turnover or labor costs; the impact of continued increased competition from dialysis providers and others; and our ability to respond to challenging U.S. and global economic and marketplace conditions, including, among other things, our ability to successfully identify cost saving opportunities; the concentration of profits generated by higher-paying commercial payor plans for which there is continued downward pressure on average realized payment rates; a reduction in the number or percentage of our patients under commercial plans, including, without limitation, as a result of continuing legislative efforts to restrict or prohibit the use and/or availability of charitable premium assistance, or as a result of payors implementing restrictive plan designs; risks arising from potential changes in or new laws, regulations or requirements applicable to us, including, without limitation, those related to healthcare, privacy, antitrust matters, and acquisition, merger, joint venture or similar transactions and/or labor matters, and potential impacts of changes in interpretation or enforcement thereof or related litigation impacting, among other things, coverage or reimbursement rates for our services or the number of patients enrolled in or that select higher-paying commercial plans, and the risk that we make incorrect assumptions about how our patients will respond to any such developments; our ability to successfully implement our strategies with respect to IKC and VBC initiatives and home based dialysis in the desired time frame and in a complex, dynamic and highly regulated environment; a reduction in government payment rates under the Medicare End Stage Renal Disease program, state Medicaid or other government-based programs and the impact of the MA benchmark structure; our reliance on significant suppliers, service providers and other third party vendors to provide key support to our business operations and enable our provision of services to patients, including, among others, suppliers of certain pharmaceuticals, administrative or other services or critical clinical products; and risks resulting from a closure, 57 reduction or other disruption in the services or products provided to us by such suppliers, service providers and third party vendors; noncompliance by us or our business associates with any privacy or security laws or any security breach by us or a third party, including, among other things, any such non-compliance or breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information; legal and compliance risks, such as compliance with complex, and at times, evolving government regulations and requirements, and with additional laws that may apply to our operations as we expand geographically or enter into new lines of business; our ability to attract, retain and motivate teammates, including key leadership personnel, and our ability to manage potential disruptions to our business and operations, including potential work stoppages, operating cost increases or productivity decreases whether due to union organizing activities, legislative or other changes, demand for labor, volatility and uncertainty in the labor market, the current challenging and highly competitive labor market conditions, including due to the ongoing nationwide shortage of skilled clinical personnel, or other reasons; changes in pharmaceutical practice patterns, reimbursement and payment policies and processes, or pharmaceutical pricing, including with respect to oral phosphate binders, among other things; our ability to develop and maintain relationships with physicians and hospitals, changing affiliation models for physicians, and the emergence of new models of care or other initiatives that, among other things, may erode our patient base and impact reimbursement rates; our ability to complete and successfully integrate and operate acquisitions, mergers, dispositions, joint ventures or other strategic transactions on terms favorable to us or at all; and our ability to continue to successfully expand our operations and services in markets outside the United States, or to businesses or products outside of dialysis services; the variability of our cash flows, including, without limitation, any extended billing or collections cycles including, without limitation, due to defects or operational issues in our billing systems or in the billing systems or services of third parties on which we rely; the risk that we may not be able to generate or access sufficient cash in the future to service our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs; the effects on us or others of natural or other disasters, public health crises or severe adverse weather events such as hurricanes, earthquakes, fires or flooding; factors that may impact our ability to repurchase stock under our stock repurchase program and the timing of any such stock repurchases, as well as any use by us of a considerable amount of available funds to repurchase stock; our goals and disclosures related to environmental, social and governance (ESG) matters, including, among other things, evolving regulatory requirements affecting ESG standards, measurements and reporting requirements ; and the other risk factors, trends and uncertainties set forth in Part I Item 1A. of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and the other risks and uncertainties discussed in any subsequent reports that we file or furnish with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) from time to time. The following should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements. 58 Company overview Our principal business is to provide dialysis and related lab services to patients in the United States, which we refer to as our U.S. dialysis business. We also operate our U.S. integrated kidney care (IKC) business, our U.S. other ancillary services, and our international operations, which we collectively refer to as our ancillary services, as well as our corporate administrative support functions. Our U.S. dialysis business is a leading provider of kidney dialysis services in the U.S. for patients suffering from chronic kidney failure, also known as end stage renal disease (ESRD) or end stage kidney disease (ESKD). Operational and financial highlights for 2024 include, among other things: U.S. dialysis revenue growth of 4.2% from an increase in average patient services revenue per treatment of $13.88; revenue growth of 16.2% in our other ancillary businesses, primarily in our international operations; operating income of $2,090 million and adjusted operating income of $1,981 million; operating cash flows of $2,022 million and free cash flows of $1,162 million; repurchase of 9,832,705 shares of our common stock for aggregate consideration of $1,389 million, and a 9.3% reduction in our outstanding share count year-over-year; entered into an amendment to our senior secured credit agreement which extended the maturity date of a portion of our Term Loan B-1 in the aggregate principal amount of $1,640 million. We further amended the senior secured credit agreement to incur an incremental Term Loan A-1 tranche in the aggregate principal amount of $1,100 million and issued an aggregate principal amount of $1,000 million of 6.875% senior notes due 2032. A portion of the proceeds of these transactions was used to repay the Term Loan B-1 maturing in 2026 of approximately $950 million; we purchased an additional $2,500 million notional amount of forward interest rate caps to shield our exposure to significant interest rate increases through 2027; and leverage ratio, as a multiple of Consolidated EBITDA, each as defined by our credit agreement, remained within our target range of 3.0x to 3.5x throughout 2024. Additional highlights include: a net increase in consolidated patient growth of 12.4%, with flat patient growth in U.S. dialysis and 62.6% international patient growth as of December 31, 2024; a net decrease of 18 U.S. dialysis centers as we continued to improve center capacity utilization, as well as a net increase of 142 international dialysis centers from acquisitions; and continued patient growth in IKC to 70,400 patients in risk-based integrated care arrangements and an additional 11,600 patients in other integrated care arrangements. In 2025, we expect relatively flat year-over-year treatment volumes due to a number of factors. These include, among other things, elevated mortality levels relative to pre-pandemic levels; the continued impact of missed treatment rates, which in recent years have been impacted by increased hospitalizations and the prevalence of severe weather events; and the impact of the supply disruption affecting our home dialysis supplies. We expect operating income growth resulting from revenue per treatment improvements, primarily driven by rate increases, the net impact of our continued improvements in our billing and collections process, mix improvement and the incorporation of oral phosphate binder reimbursement into the bundle, as described below. We expect an increase in costs per treatment due to the oral phosphate binders and inflationary increases in labor and other costs, partially offset by a decline in center closure costs. In 2025, we also expect operating growth in our international business as we continue our expansion in international markets and we expect results in our 2025 integrated kidney care business to be consistent with 2024. We expect a continued increase in debt expense in 2025 due in part to the financing transactions announced in 2024 and the expiration of our 2019 interest cap agreements in 2024 as described below. Finally, considerable uncertainty remains surrounding the continued implementation and development of the various governmental laws, regulations and other requirements that may impact our business, including the extent to the which such developments impact the behavior of other health care market participants such as payors, employers, charitable organizations and government agencies. The discussion below includes analysis of our financial condition and results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2024 compared to December 31, 2023. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023, 59 includes a discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2022, in its Part II Item 7, " Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. " References to the "Notes" in the discussion below refer to the notes to the Company's consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K at Part IV Item 15, " Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules " as referred from Part II Item 8, " Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. " General Economic, Marketplace and Global Health Conditions; Legal and Regulatory Developments As noted above and described below, developments in general economic, marketplace and global health conditions have directly and indirectly impacted the Company and in the future could have a material adverse impact on our patients, teammates, physician partners, suppliers, business, operations, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, share price, cash flows and/or liquidity. Many of these external factors and conditions are interrelated, including, among other things, inflation, interest rate volatility, and other economic conditions, labor market conditions, wage pressure, the increased mortality rates of our patients and other ESKD or CKD patients, supply chain challenges and the potential impact and application of innovative technologies, drugs or other treatments. Certain of these impacts could be further intensified by concurrent global events, which have continued to drive sociopolitical, geopolitical and economic uncertainty; severe weather events and other natural disasters, which have impacted national supply chain challenges; the impact of new policies implemented by the new administration in the United States, which have affected certain government sponsored programs, among other things. For additional discussion of general economic, marketplace and global health conditions that could impact our business, see Part I Item 1. " Business " and Part I Item 1A. " Risk Factors. " Operational and Financial Impacts On a full year basis, we experienced a negative impact on revenue and treatment volume due to, among other things, continued elevated mortality rates of our patients in comparison to the periods prior to the COVID-19 pandemic and the associated impact on our patient census, missed treatments driven by severe weather events and the impact of a temporary pause in home dialysis starts that resulted from the closure of one of our supplier's facilities. Treatment volumes during the year were also adversely impacted by continued elevated missed treatment rates, which during 2024 were driven primarily by severe weather events. New-to-dialysis admission rates, treatment volumes, future revenues and non-acquired growth, among other things, could continue to be negatively impacted over time to the extent that the ESKD and CKD populations experience sustained elevated mortality levels. These mortality levels could be influenced by, among other things, the availability and use of vaccines, treatments and therapies. As described in Part I Item 1A. " Risk Factors, " the magnitude of these cumulative impacts could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Ongoing global economic conditions and political and regulatory developments, such as general labor, supply chain and inflationary pressures have increased, and will likely continue to increase, our expenses, including, among others, staffing, labor and supply costs. We have also experienced service disruptions relating to key business functions and supply chain shortages with respect to certain of our equipment and clinical supplies, including critical clinical and other supplies. Certain of these disruptions related to external conditions, such as the aforementioned severe weather event that impacted our supply chain for key products as well as the cybersecurity incident at Change Healthcare (CHC) that impacted our billing operations. As described in Part I Item 1A. " Risk Factors " under the heading, " If certain of our supplier and service providers ", any disruption involving such suppliers could materially impact our operations and require significant resources or operational changes in response. We expect certain of these increased staffing and labor costs to continue into 2025, due to, among other factors, the continuation of inflationary conditions and a challenging healthcare labor market. The cumulative impact of these increased costs could be material. During 2024, our industry also continued to experience increased union organizing activities. For example, union petitions have been filed in nine of our clinics in California and eight of these petitions are in different stages of the voting process and have been subject to legal challenges. For additional details on the risks related to rising labor costs and union organizing activities, see the discussion in Part I Item 1A. " Risk Factors " under the headings, " Our business is labor intensive..." and "External conditions, including those related to general economic, marketplace and global health conditions..." Legal and Regulatory Developments As noted above, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) published in the federal register a final rule that would generally ban all post-employment personal service non-compete clauses with employees and prohibit employers from enforcing existing non-compete clauses in contracts with workers, with limited exceptions. Even though the rule has been enjoined, many state legislatures continue to introduce legislation that seeks to place limitations on restrictive covenants with workers. For additional details on federal and state regulations or future federal or state regulations and the potential impact on our business, see the 60 discussion in Part I Item 1. " Business " under the heading " U.S. Dialysis Business" and Part I Item 1A. " Risk Factors " under the heading, " Changes in federal and state legislation and regulations..." Change Healthcare As noted above and previously reported, due to a cybersecurity breach that affected CHC, a subsidiary of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (United) that serves as an intermediary for processing the vast majority of our payment claims for domestic commercial and government payors, we temporarily suspended all claims processing activity with CHC (CHC Outage), primarily during a period of time during the first and second quarters of 2024, which impacted our cash flows. We have since resumed claims submissions and billing processes through CHC information technology systems and as of the date of this filing, through a combination of CHC's platform and certain alternate billing processes, we are current on our primary claims submissions. However, the CHC Outage, and the resultant delay in claims submissions, led to an increase in our days sales outstanding (DSO), among other things. That DSO increase has subsided, but we do continue to see delays in, and issues with, collections with some payors. For additional details on the CHC Outage and a discussion of the risks associated with outages, disruptions or incidents at third parties on which we rely, see the discussion in Part I Item 1A. " Risk Factors " under the headings, " Failing to effectively maintain, operate or upgrade our information systems or those of third-party service providers upon which we rely... " and " Privacy and information security laws are complex " We believe that the aforementioned recent developments and general economic, marketplace and global health conditions will continue to impact the Company in the future. Their ultimate impact depends on future developments that are highly uncertain and difficult to predict. 61 Consolidated results of operations The following table summarizes our revenues, operating income (loss) and adjusted operating income (loss) by line of business. See the discussion of our results for each line of business following this table. When multiple drivers are identified in the following discussion of results, they are listed in order of magnitude: Year ended December 31, Annual change 2024 2023 Amount Percent (dollars in millions) Revenues: U.S. dialysis $ 11,391 $ 10,937 $ 454 4.2 % Other - Ancillary services 1,510 1,299 211 16.2 % Elimination of intersegment revenues (86) (96) 10 10.4 % Total consolidated revenues $ 12,816 $ 12,140 $ 676 5.6 % Operating income (loss): U.S. dialysis $ 2,121 $ 1,775 $ 346 19.5 % Other - Ancillary services 83 (9) 92 1,022.2 % Corporate administrative support (113) (163) 50 30.7 % Operating income $ 2,090 $ 1,603 $ 487 30.4 % Adjusted operating income (loss): (1) U.S. dialysis $ 2,086 $ 1,801 $ 285 15.8 % Other - Ancillary services 8 (45) 53 117.8 % Corporate administrative support (113) (122) 9 7.4 % Adjusted operating income $ 1,981 $ 1,635 $ 346 21.2 % Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers. (1) For a reconciliation of adjusted operating income (loss) by reportable segment, see the " Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures " section below. U.S. dialysis business As of December 31, 2024, our U.S. dialysis business is a leading provider of kidney dialysis services, operating 2,657 outpatient dialysis centers serving approximately 200,800 patients, and contracted to provide hospital inpatient dialysis services in approximately 760 hospitals. We estimate that we have approximately a 36% share of the U.S. dialysis market based upon the number of patients we serve. Approximately 88% of our 2024 consolidated revenues were derived directly from our U.S. dialysis business. The principal drivers of our U.S. dialysis revenues include : our number of treatments, which is primarily a function of the number of chronic patients requiring approximately three in-center treatments per week as well as, to a lesser extent, the number of treatments for home-based dialysis and hospital inpatient dialysis; and our average dialysis patient service revenue per treatment, including the mix of patients with commercial plans and government programs as primary payor. Within our U.S. dialysis business, our home-based dialysis and hospital inpatient dialysis services are operationally integrated with our outpatient dialysis centers and related laboratory services. Our outpatient, home-based and hospital inpatient dialysis services comprise approximately 75%, 19% and 6% of our U.S. dialysis revenues, respectively. In the U.S., government dialysis-related payment rates are principally determined by federal Medicare and state Medicaid policy. For 2024, approximately 67% of our total U.S. dialysis patient service revenues were generated from government-based programs for services to approximately 89% of our total U.S. patients. These government-based programs are principally Medicare and MA, Medicaid and managed Medicaid plans, and other government plans, representing approximately 56%, 8% and 3% of our U.S. dialysis patient service revenues, respectively. 62 In November 2024, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) issued a final rule to update the Medicare ESRD Prospective Payment System payment rate and policies for calendar year 2024. CMS has finalized ESRD facilities' average reimbursement by a productivity-adjusted market basket increase of 2.2% in 2025. In addition, from time-to-time CMS identifies drugs to be added to the ESRD PPS bundled payment. On January 1, 2025, phosphate binders, a drug class taken orally by many ESKD patients to reduce absorption of dietary phosphate, were incorporated into the ESRD PPS bundle. Phosphate binders are not considered accounted for in the ESRD PPS base rate at this time and will be reimbursed through a Transitional Drug Add-on Payment Adjustment (TDAPA). The TDAPA period is expected to continue for a period of at least two years. Currently, phosphate binders are offered in both generic and branded forms and are produced by multiple manufacturers. During this TDAPA period, our operating results could be materially impacted by certain factors, including physician prescribing patterns, the terms of supplier and other vendor contracts, the mix of branded and generic forms of the drug used by our patients, whether the drug enters into the ESRD PPS and becomes part of its bundled payment following TDAPA and, if so, at what rate and how payors will treat reimbursement of the drug at the conclusion of the TDAPA period. Dialysis payment rates from commercial payors vary and a major portion of our commercial rates are set at contracted amounts with payors and are subject to intense negotiation pressure. On average, dialysis-related payment rates from contracted commercial payors are significantly higher than Medicare, Medicaid and other government program payment rates, and therefore the percentage of commercial patients in relation to total patients represents a significant driver of our total average dialysis patient service revenue per treatment. Commercial payors (including hospital dialysis services) represent approximately 33% of U.S. dialysis patient service revenues. For a discussion of government reimbursement, the Medicare ESRD bundled payment system, MA and commercial reimbursement, see Part I Item 1 ."Business" under the heading " U.S. dialysis business Sources of revenue-concentrations and risks." For a discussion of operational, clinical and financial risks and uncertainties that we face in connection with the Medicare ESRD bundled payment system, see the risk factor in Part I Item 1A. "Risk Factors " under the heading " Our business is subject to a complex set of governmental laws, regulations and other requirements and any failure to adhere to those requirements, or any changes in those requirements..." For a discussion of operational, clinical and financial risks and uncertainties that we face in connection with commercial payors, see the risk factor in Part I Item 1A. "Risk Factors" under the heading " If the number or percentage of patients with higher-paying commercial insurance declines, if the average rates that commercial payors pay us declines... " We anticipate that we will continue to experience increases in our operating costs in 2025 that may outpace any net Medicare, commercial or other rate increases that we may receive, which could significantly impact our operating results. In particular, we expect to continue experiencing increases in operating costs that are subject to inflation, such as labor and supply costs, including increases in maintenance costs, regardless of whether there is a compensating inflation-based increase in Medicare, commercial or other payor payment rates. In addition, we expect to continue to incur capital expenditures and associated depreciation and amortization costs to improve, renovate and maintain our facilities, equipment and information technology to meet evolving regulatory requirements and otherwise. U.S. dialysis patient care costs are those costs directly associated with operating and supporting our dialysis centers, home-based dialysis programs and hospital inpatient dialysis programs, and consist principally of labor, benefits, pharmaceuticals, medical supplies and other operating costs of the dialysis centers. The principal drivers of our U.S. dialysis patient care costs include: clinical hours per treatment, labor rates and benefit costs; vendor pricing and utilization levels of pharmaceuticals; business infrastructure costs, which include the operating costs of our dialysis centers; and medical supply costs. Other cost categories that can present significant variability include insurance costs and professional fees. In addition, proposed ballot initiatives or referendums, legislation, regulations or policy changes could cause us to incur substantial costs to prepare for, or implement changes required. Any such changes could result in, among other things, increases in our labor costs or limitations on the amount of revenue that we can retain. For additional information on risks associated with potential and proposed ballot initiatives, referendums, legislation, regulations or policy changes, see the risk factor in Part I Item 1A. " Risk Factors" under the heading, " Changes in federal and state healthcare legislation or regulations... " Our average clinical hours per treatment decreased in 2024 compared to 2023 primarily due to a decrease in turnover as described below. We are always striving for improved productivity levels, however, changes in factors such as federal and state 63 policies or regulatory billing requirements can lead to increased labor costs as can increases in turnover. In 2024, the demand for skilled clinical personnel continued, exacerbated by the nationwide shortage of these resources. In 2024 and 2023, we experienced increases in our clinical labor wage rates, which includes contract labor, of approximately 3.8% and 1.3%, respectively. We expect to continue to see higher clinical labor rates in 2025 due to labor market conditions, including changes in local minimum wage laws, and the continued competition for skilled clinical personnel. In 2024, our overall clinical teammate turnover decreased from 2023, but remains elevated from historical pre-COVID levels. We also continue to experience increases in the infrastructure and operating costs of our dialysis centers and general increases in utilities and repairs and maintenance. In 2024, we continued to implement certain cost control initiatives to help manage our overall operating costs, including labor productivity, and we expect to continue these initiatives in 2025. Our U.S. dialysis general and administrative expenses represented 10.3% and 10.1% of our U.S. dialysis revenues in 2024 and 2023, respectively. Increases in general and administrative expenses over the last several years were primarily related to strengthening our dialysis business and related compliance and operational processes, responding to certain legal and compliance matters and professional fees. We expect that these levels of general and administrative expenses will be impacted by continued investment in developing our capabilities and executing on our strategic priorities, among other things. U.S. dialysis results of operations Treatment volume: Year ended December 31, Annual change 2024 2023 Amount Percent Dialysis treatments 29,046,346 28,910,177 136,169 0.5 % Average treatments per day 92,534 92,542 (8) % Treatment days 314 312 2 0.6 % Normalized non-acquired treatment growth (1) % (0.1) % 0.1 % Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers (1) Normalized non-acquired treatment growth reflects year over year growth in treatment volume, adjusted to exclude acquisitions and other similar transactions, and further adjusted to normalize for the number and mix of treatment days in a given period versus the prior period. Our U.S. dialysis operating revenues and expenses are directly driven by treatment volume. The increase in our U.S. dialysis treatments in 2024 was primarily driven by additional treatment days and increased treatments from acquired treatment growth partially offset by an increase in missed treatments. Revenues: Year ended December 31, Annual change 2024 2023 Amount Percent (dollars in millions, except per treatment data) Total revenues $ 11,391 $ 10,937 $ 454 4.2 % Average patient service revenue per treatment $ 391.32 $ 377.44 $ 13.88 3.7 % Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers U.S. dialysis average patient service revenue per treatment increased primarily driven by the increase in average reimbursement rates from normal annual rate increases including Medicare rate increases, revenue cycle improvements, favorable changes in mix, and an increase in hospital inpatient dialysis rates. 64 Operating expenses and charges: Year ended December 31, Annual change 2024 2023 Amount Percent (dollars in millions, except per treatment data) Patient care costs $ 7,498 $ 7,395 $ 103 1.4 % General and administrative 1,174 1,102 72 6.5 % Depreciation and amortization 661 696 (35) (5.0) % Equity investment income (28) (30) 2 6.7 % Gain on changes in ownership interests (35) (35) (100.0) % Total operating expenses and charges $ 9,270 $ 9,162 $ 107 1.2 % Patient care costs per treatment $ 258.12 $ 255.78 $ 2.34 0.9 % Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers Charges impacting operating income Closure costs. In the third quarter of 2022, we began a strategic review of our outpatient clinic capacity requirements and utilization, which had been significantly impacted by declines in our patient census due to the COVID-19 pandemic. This review continued through 2023, with impacts continuing into 2024, and has resulted in higher than normal charges for center capacity closures over the last several quarters. These capacity closure costs include net losses on assets retired, lease termination costs, asset impairments and accelerated depreciation and amortization. During the year ended December 31, 2024, U.S. dialysis center closure costs were approximately $72.4 million, which impacted our patient care costs by $30.8 million, our general and administrative expenses by $25.6 million and our depreciation and amortization expense by $16.0 million. By comparison, during the year ended December 31, 2023, U.S. dialysis center closures were approximately $99.1 million, which impacted our patient care costs by $28.0 million, our general and administrative expenses by $20.6 million and our depreciation and amortization expense by $50.5 million. In the upcoming fiscal year, we expect a decrease in our center closure costs as we expect future closures to return to pre-COVID levels. Severance costs. During the fourth quarter of 2022, we committed to a plan to increase efficiencies and cost savings in certain general and administrative support functions. As a result of this plan, we recognized expenses related to termination and other benefit commitments in our U.S. dialysis business of $26.7 million during the twelve months ended December 31, 2023. Patient care costs. U.S. dialysis patient care costs are those costs directly associated with operating and supporting our dialysis centers and consist principally of compensation expenses including labor and benefits, pharmaceuticals, medical supplies and other operating costs of the dialysis centers. U.S. dialysis patient care costs per treatment increased primarily due to increased compensation expenses, including increased wage rates, as well as increases in health benefit expense and medical supply costs. Other drivers of this change include increases in utilities expense driven by lower expense in 2023 related to our virtual power purchase arrangements, insurance costs and routine repairs and maintenance. These increases were partially offset by decreases in contributions to charitable organizations, other direct operating expenses associated with our dialysis centers, contract wages and a gain on settlement received in the fourth quarter of 2024. General and administrative expenses. U.S. dialysis general and administrative expenses increased primarily due to increases in compensation expense, including increased wage rates and headcount, as well as IT-related costs and advocacy costs, including a refund received in 2023 related to 2022 advocacy costs. Other drivers of this change include increased professional fees, center closure costs, as described above, and health benefit expense. These increases were partially offset by decreases in severance costs, as described above, and contributions to our charitable foundation. Depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization expense is directly impacted by the number of our dialysis centers and the information technology that we develop and acquire as well as changes in useful lives of assets. U.S. dialysis depreciation and amortization expense decreased in 2024 primarily due to decreased accelerated depreciation related to center closures, as described above. Equity investment income. U.S. dialysis equity investment income decreased due to the consolidation of a previously nonconsolidated dialysis partnership in the first quarter of 2024, partially offset by increased profitability at certain nonconsolidated dialysis partnerships. 65 Gain on changes in ownership interests . During the first quarter of 2024, we acquired a controlling interest in a previously nonconsolidated dialysis partnership for which we recognized a non-cash gain of $35.1 million on our prior investment upon consolidation. Operating income and adjusted operating income Year ended December 31, Annual change 2024 2023 Amount Percent (dollars in millions) Operating income $ 2,121 $ 1,775 $ 346 19.5 % Adjusted operating income (1) $ 2,086 $ 1,801 $ 285 15.8 % Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers. (1) For a reconciliation of adjusted operating income by reportable segment, see the " Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures " section below. U.S. dialysis operating income for 2024 compared to 2023 was positively impacted by a gain on a change in business ownership interest and severance costs, as described above. U.S. dialysis operating income and adjusted operating income increased compared to 2023 primarily due to an increase in our average patient service revenue per treatment and dialysis treatments, as described above, as well as decreases in charitable contributions, center closure costs, as described above, other direct operating expenses associated with our dialysis centers, contract wages and a gain on settlement, as described above. These increases in operating income and adjusted operating income were partially offset by increases in compensation expenses, as described above, as well as increases in health benefit expense, IT-related costs, medical supply costs, advocacy costs and utilities expense, as described above. Operating income and adjusted operating income were also negatively impacted by increased insurance costs, routine repairs and maintenance and professional fees. Other - Ancillary services Our other operations include ancillary services that are primarily aligned with our core business of providing dialysis services to our network of patients. As of December 31, 2024, these consisted primarily of our U.S. IKC business, certain U.S. other ancillary businesses (including our clinical research programs, transplant software business, and venture investment group), and our international operations. These ancillary services, including our international operations, generated revenues of approximately $1.510 billion in 2024, representing approximately 12% of our consolidated revenues. As of December 31, 2024, DaVita IKC provided integrated care and disease management services to approximately 70,400 patients in risk-based integrated care arrangements and to an additional 11,600 patients in other integrated care arrangements. We also expect to add additional service offerings to our business and pursue additional strategic initiatives in the future as circumstances warrant, which could include, among other things, healthcare services not related to kidney disease. For a discussion of the risks related to IKC and our ancillary services, see the discussion in the risk factors in Part I Item 1A. " Risk Factors " under the headings, " The U.S. integrated kidney care, U.S. other ancillary services and international operations that we operate or invest in now or in the future ..." and " If we are not able to successfully implement our strategy with respect to our integrated kidney care and value-based care initiatives ..." As of December 31, 2024, our international dialysis business owned or operated 509 outpatient dialysis centers located in 13 countries outside of the U.S. For 2024, total revenues generated from our international operations were approximately 8% of our consolidated revenues. 66 Ancillary services results of operations Year ended December 31, Annual change 2024 2023 Amount Percent (dollars in millions) Revenues: U.S. IKC $ 508 $ 511 $ (3) (0.6) % U.S. other ancillary 25 25 % International 977 763 214 28.0 % Total ancillary services revenues $ 1,510 $ 1,299 $ 211 16.2 % Operating (loss) income: U.S. IKC $ (35) $ (39) $ 4 10.3 % U.S. other ancillary (9) (25) 16 64.0 % International (1) 127 55 72 130.9 % Total ancillary services operating income (loss) $ 83 $ (9) $ 92 1,022.2 % Adjusted operating (loss) income (2) : U.S. IKC $ (35) $ (93) $ 58 62.4 % U.S. other ancillary (9) (7) (2) (28.6) % International (1) 52 55 (3) (5.5) % Total adjusted operating income (loss): $ 8 $ (45) $ 53 117.8 % Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers. (1) The reported operating income and adjusted operating income for the years ended December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023, includes foreign currency gains (losses) embedded in equity method income recognized from our APAC joint venture, which was consolidated in the fourth quarter of 2024, of approximately $0.6 million and $(1.6) million, respectively. (2) For a reconciliation of adjusted operating (loss) income by reportable segment, see the " Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures " section below. Revenues: Our IKC revenues were impacted by decreased revenues from our special needs plans and the divestiture of our physician services business, partially offset by a net increase in shared savings. Our U.S. other ancillary services revenues were impacted by increased revenues from our transplant software business, offset by decreased revenues in our clinical research programs. Our international revenues increased due to acquired and non-acquired treatment growth and average reimbursement rate increases in certain countries, partially offset by charges for balances deemed uncollectible. Items impacting operating income IKC adjustment. The decrease in IKC revenues for 2024, as described above, was impacted by the lifting of certain revenue recognition constraints for some of our value-based care contracts with health plans in 2023, which allowed us to recognize approximately $55 million in incremental shared savings revenues during 2023 compared to what we would have recognized under previous years' constraints. Since we launched our IKC VBC business, the COVID-19 pandemic and its distorting effects on medical utilization have subsided, our VBC contracts have continued to mature, we have begun to receive more timely and granular data from our health plan partners and we have gained more experience making total medical cost estimates for this population. These changes and refinements have helped to mitigate or alleviate a number of the information and measurement limitations that constrained our revenue recognition in the past, allowing us to recognize a greater share of expected shared savings revenues for our VBC plans sooner than we had in previous periods. As a result, we recognized a majority of the VBC shared savings revenues we expected to earn for 2023 in 2023, while in previous years a substantial majority of the shared savings earned for a VBC plan year were recognized in a subsequent year. Our fiscal year 2023 therefore included a general shift in the timing of our revenue recognition for shared savings under our VBC contracts with health plans, as it included a majority of shared savings revenues earned for both 2022 and 2023. 67 Severance and other costs . During the fourth quarter of 2022, similar to U.S. dialysis, we committed to a plan to increase efficiencies and cost savings in certain general and administrative support functions and other overhead costs. As a result of this plan, we recognized expenses related to termination and other benefit commitments in our IKC business of $0.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2023. Goodwill impairment charge and related items . During the fourth quarter of 2023, we recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $26.1 million in our transplant software business. We also recognized a gain of $7.7 million due to a reduction in the estimated value of earn-out obligations from our original acquisition of this business. This impairment charge and related gain resulted from a reduction in estimated fair value for the business driven primarily from the business not achieving its revenue targets, with reduced revenue expectations for future years, as well as an increase in the risk-free rate. Gain on changes in ownership interests . During the fourth quarter of 2024, we acquired a controlling interest in the previously nonconsolidated partnership known as the Company's APAC joint venture, for which we recognized a non-cash gain of $74.3 million on our prior investment upon consolidation. Operating income (loss) and adjusted operating income (loss): Our IKC operating loss for 2024 compared to 2023 was impacted by the IKC adjustment, as described above. Our IKC operating loss and adjusted operating loss decreased primarily due to a net increase in shared savings, decreased medical costs for our special needs plans and the divestiture of our physician services business. These increases were partially offset by decreased revenues from our special needs plans and continued investments in our integrated care support functions. Our U.S. other ancillary services operating loss for 2024 compared to 2023 was impacted by a goodwill impairment charge and related gain, as described above. Our U.S. other ancillary services operating loss and adjusted operating loss was impacted by decreased revenues in our clinical research programs and increased expenses in our transplant software business, partially offset by increased revenues from our transplant software business. Our international operating income was impacted by a gain on a change in business ownership interests, as described above. International operating income and adjusted operating income were impacted by increased revenues, as described above, partially offset by increases in operating and deal costs from acquisition-related growth. Corporate administrative support Corporate administrative support consists primarily of labor, benefits and long-term incentive compensation expense, as well as professional fees, for departments which provide support to more than one of our various operating lines of business. Corporate administrative support expenses are included in general and administrative expenses on our consolidated income statement . Accruals for legal matters . During 2023, we recorded a charge of $40 million for a legal matter within corporate administrative support. Corporate administrative support expenses decreased $50 million due to the absence in 2024 of the legal charge described above, and decreased long-term incentive compensation costs, partially offset by increased compensation expenses in 2024. 68 Corporate-level charges Year ended December 31, Annual change 2024 2023 Amount Percent (dollars in millions) Debt expense $ 470 $ 399 $ 71 17.8 % Debt prepayment, extinguishment and modification costs $ 20 $ 8 $ 12 150.0 % Weighted average effective interest rate (1) 5.07 % 4.52 % 0.55 % Other loss, net $ (70) $ (19) $ (51) (268.4) % Effective income tax rate 18.3 % 18.7 % (0.4) % Effective income tax rate attributable to DaVita Inc. (2) 22.9 % 24.3 % (1.4) % Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests $ 314 $ 265 $ 49 18.5 % Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers. (1) Represents our overall weighted average effective interest rate on all debt, including the effect of interest rate caps and amortization of debt discount, premium and deferred financing charges. (2) For a reconciliation of our effective income tax rate attributable to DaVita Inc., see the " Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures " section below. Debt expense Debt expense increased primarily due to an increase in overall weighted average effective interest rate principally related to the expiration of our 2019 interest rate cap agreements on June 30, 2024, which had lower rates than our currently effective interest rate caps, as well as an increase in our our long-term debt balance related to the issuance of 6.875% senior notes due 2032 and incremental borrowing on our Term Loan A-1, partially offset by the repayment of the non-extended Term Loan B-1. See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on the components of our debt and changes in them since 2023. Debt extinguishment and modification costs Debt prepayment, extinguishment and modification costs were $20 million in 2024 composed of fees incurred in connection with the additional incremental borrowing on our Term Loan A-1 (Incremental Term Loan A-1), the extension of the maturity date of a portion of our Term Loan B-1 from August 2026 to May 2031 (Extended Term Loan B-1), and deferred financing costs and original issue discount written off for the extinguishment of the non-extended Term Loan B-1. Comparatively, debt extinguishment and modification costs were $8 million in 2023 related to the refinancing of our prior Term Loan A and prior revolving line of credit. These costs were composed of deferred financing costs written off for the portion of this debt considered extinguished and reborrowed and fees incurred as part of this debt refinancing. See Note 12 to the condensed consolidated financial statements for further information on the Incremental Term Loan A-1, Extended Term Loan B-1 and the components of our debt. Other loss Other loss consists primarily of interest income on cash and cash equivalents and short- and long-term investments, equity investment (loss) income on equity method investments other than dialysis partnerships, realized and unrealized gains and losses recognized on other investments, impairments on investments, and foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Other loss increased primarily due to equity investment losses on our investment in Mozarc Medical Holding LLC (Mozarc), including the $14 million gain recognized in 2023 on the non-cash assets contributed to Mozarc, partially offset by decreased losses recognized on other investments, decreased losses on foreign currency transactions and an increase in interest income. Provision for income taxes Our effective income tax rate and effective income tax rate attributable to DaVita Inc. decreased in 2024 primarily due to the tax impact of non-taxable non-cash gains related to previously nonconsolidated businesses and a decrease in nondeductible executive compensation. This benefit was partially offset by additional expense recognized in 2024 for finalized tax returns and a decrease in benefits recognized for uncertain tax positions. 69 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests The increase in income attributable to noncontrolling interests was due to an increase in earnings at certain U.S. dialysis partnerships. U.S. dialysis accounts receivable Our U.S. dialysis accounts receivable balances at December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023 were $1.615 billion and $1.632 billion, respectively, representing approximately 52 days and 54 days of revenue (DSO), respectively. The decrease in DSO was primarily due to continued collections improvements. Our DSO calculation is based on the most recent quarter average revenues per day. There were no significant changes during 2024 from 2023 in the carrying amount of accounts receivable outstanding over one year old or in the amounts pending approval from third-party payors. As of December 31, 2024 and 2023, our U.S. dialysis accounts receivable balances that are more than six months old represented approximately 23% and 19% of our U.S. dialysis accounts receivable balances outstanding, respectively. Substantially all revenue realized for patient services is received from government and commercial payors, as discussed above. Less than 1% of our revenues in both periods were classified as patient pay. Amounts pending approval from third-party payors associated with Medicare bad debt claims as of December 31, 2024 and 2023, other than the standard monthly billing, were approximately $107 million, and are classified within other receivables. A significant portion of our Medicare bad debt claims are typically paid to us before the Medicare fiscal intermediary audits the claims but are subject to subsequent adjustment based upon the actual results of those audits. Such audits typically occur one to four years after the claims are filed. 70 Liquidity and capital resources The following table summarizes our major sources and uses of cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash: Year ended December 31, Annual change 2024 2023 Amount Percent (dollars in millions) Net cash provided by operating activities: Net income $ 1,251 $ 957 $ 294 30.7 % Non-cash items in net income 801 908 (107) (11.8) % Other working capital changes 44 209 (165) (78.9) % Other (74) (14) (60) (428.6) % $ 2,022 $ 2,059 $ (37) (1.8) % Net cash used in investing activities: Maintenance capital expenditures (1) $ (394) $ (406) $ 12 3.0 % Development capital expenditures (2) (162) (162) % Acquisition expenditures (246) (26) (220) (846.2) % Proceeds from sale of self-developed properties 18 11 7 63.6 % Other 12 (189) 201 106.3 % $ (771) $ (772) $ 1 0.1 % Net cash used in financing activities: Debt proceeds (payments), net $ 1,095 $ (550) $ 1,645 299.1 % Deferred and debt related financing costs (51) (70) 19 27.1 % Distributions to noncontrolling interests (337) (281) (56) (19.9) % Contributions from noncontrolling interests 14 15 (1) (6.7) % Stock award exercises and other share issuances (114) (48) (66) (137.5) % Share repurchases (1,386) (272) (1,114) (409.6) % Other (39) 35 (74) (211.4) % $ (817) $ (1,170) $ 353 30.2 % Total number of shares repurchased 9,832,705 2,903,832 6,928,873 238.6 % Free cash flow (3) $ 1,162 $ 1,236 $ (74) (6.0) % Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers. (1) Maintenance capital expenditures represent capital expenditures to maintain the productive capacity of the business and include those made for investments in information technology, dialysis center renovations, capital asset replacements, and any other capital expenditures that are not development or acquisition expenditures. (2) Development capital expenditures principally represent capital expenditures (other than acquisition expenditures) made to expand the productive capacity of the business and include those for new U.S. and international dialysis center developments, dialysis center expansions and relocations, and new or expanded contracted hospital operations. (3) For a reconciliation of our free cash flow, see the " Reconciliations of Non-GAAP measures " section below. Consolidated cash flows Consolidated cash flows from operating activities for 2024 and 2023 were $2,022 million and $2,059 million, respectively. The decrease in cash flows was primarily driven by increases in taxes and interest paid combined with changes in other working capital items partially offset by improved operating results. Cash flows used for investing activities in 2024 was flat compared to 2023. An increase in acquisitions due to our international growth was largely offset by decreases in equity investments driven by our investment in Mozarc in 2023. 71 Cash flows used in financing activities decreased $353 million in 2024 compared to 2023. Significant sources of cash during the period included the extension of the maturity date from August 2026 to May 2031 for a portion of our Term Loan B-1 (the Extended Term Loan B-1 transaction) in the aggregate principal amount of approximately $1,640 million, (such portion referred to as the Extended Term Loan B-1), the incurrence of an incremental Term Loan A-1 tranche in the aggregate principal amount of $1,100 million (such portion referred to as the Incremental Term Loan A-1), the issuance of 6.875% senior notes due 2032 in the amount of $1,000 million (the 6.875% Senior Notes) and Change Healthcare temporary funding assistance of $93 million, net, pursuant to the CHC Funding Arrangement during the year ended December 31, 2024. Significant uses of cash during that same period included debt prepayments on Term Loan B-1 in the aggregate amount of approximately $2,590 million as part of the Extended Term Loan B-1, Incremental Term Loan A-1 and 6.875% Senior Notes transactions, and regularly scheduled principal payments under our senior secured credit facilities totaling approximately $75 million on our Term Loan A-1, $14 million on Term Loan B-1 and $4 million on Extended Term Loan B-1, as well as additional required payments under other debt arrangements. Additionally, we recognized financing cash outflows of $36 million in deferred financing costs and discount related to the Fourth and Sixth Amendments to the Senior Secured Credit Agreement and 6.875% Senior Notes transactions, as well as $15 million in cap premium fees for our 2024 forward interest rate cap agreements. During the year ended December 31, 2024 we also used cash to repurchase 9,832,705 shares of our common stock. By comparison, 2023 significant uses of cash included the pay-off of the remaining principal balance outstanding on our prior Term Loan A and prior revolving line of credit in the amount of $1,444 million and $150 million, respectively. Other uses of cash included regularly scheduled and other principal payments under our senior secured credit facilities totaling approximately $54 million on our prior Term Loan A, $16 million on our new Term Loan A-1, $57 million on Term Loan B-1, additional net repayments of $15 million on our revolving line of credit, as well as additional required payments under other debt arrangements. Additionally, we recognized financing cash outflows of $30 million in deferred financing costs related to the Amendments to the Senior Secured Credit Agreement and $40 million in cap premium fees for our 2023 forward interest cap agreements. Significant sources of cash during the period included the refinancing of the Term Loan A and revolving line of credit with a secured Term Loan A-1 facility in the aggregate principal amount of $1,250 million. During the year ended December 31, 2023 we also used cash to repurchase 2,903,832 shares of our common stock. Dialysis center capacity and growth We are typically able to increase our capacity by extending hours at our existing dialysis centers, expanding our existing dialysis centers, relocating our dialysis centers, developing new dialysis centers and by acquiring dialysis centers. The development of a typical new outpatient dialysis center generally requires approximately $2 million for leasehold improvements and other capital expenditures. Based on our experience, a new outpatient dialysis center typically opens within a year after the property lease is signed, normally achieves operating profitability in the second year after Medicare certification, and normally reaches maturity within three to five years. Acquiring an existing outpatient dialysis center requires a substantially greater initial investment, but profitability and cash flows are generally accelerated and more predictable. To a limited extent, we enter into agreements to provide management and administrative services to outpatient dialysis centers in which we own a noncontrolling interest or which are wholly-owned by third parties in return for management fees. The table below shows the growth in our dialysis operations by number of dialysis centers owned or operated: U.S. International 2024 2023 2024 2023 Number of centers operated at beginning of year 2,675 2,724 367 350 Acquired centers 12 198 12 Developed centers 13 20 5 8 Net change in non-owned managed or administered centers (1) (7) 3 (47) 2 Sold and closed centers (2) (12) (6) (6) (2) Closed centers (3) (24) (66) (8) (3) Number of centers operated at end of year 2,657 2,675 509 367 (1) Represents the change in the number of dialysis centers which we manage or provide administrative services to but in which we own a noncontrolling equity interest or which are wholly-owned by third parties. For our international business, 2024 activity includes a reduction in managed centers, and an increase in acquired centers, from the consolidation of our APAC joint venture on November 1, 2024. (2) Represents dialysis centers that were sold and/or closed for which the majority of patients were not retained. (3) Represents dialysis centers that were closed for which the majority of patients were retained and transferred to one of our other existing outpatient dialysis centers. 72 Stock repurchases The following table summarizes our common stock repurchases during the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023: Year ended December 31, 2024 2023 (dollars in millions and shares in thousands, except per share data) Shares 9,833 2,904 Amounts paid (1) $ 1,389 $ 286 Average price paid per share (2) $ 140.06 $ 97.82 (1) Includes commissions and the 1% excise tax imposed on certain stock repurchases made after December 31, 2022 by the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022. The excise tax is recorded as part of the cost basis of treasury stock repurchased and, as such, is included in stockholders equity. (2) Excludes commissions and the excise tax described above Subsequent to December 31, 2024, we have repurchased 778,746 shares of our common stock for $125 million at an average price paid of $158.48 per share through February 13, 2025, including repurchases from Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (Berkshire) pursuant to our previously disclosed share repurchase agreement. See further discussion of our share repurchase activity, authorizations and information on our share repurchase agreement with Berkshire in Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements. Available liquidity As of December 31, 2024, our cash balance was $795 million and we held approximately $51 million in short-term investments. At that time we also had undrawn capacity on the revolving line of credit under our senior credit facilities of $1.5 billion. Credit available under this revolving line of credit is reduced by the amount of any letters of credit outstanding thereunder, of which there were none as of December 31, 2024. As of December 31, 2024 we separately had approximately $161 million in letters of credit outstanding under a separate bilateral secured letter of credit facility. See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for components of our long-term debt and their interest rates. We believe that our cash flows from operations and other sources of liquidity, including from amounts available under our senior secured credit facilities and our access to the capital markets, will be sufficient to fund our scheduled debt service under the terms of our debt agreements and other obligations for the foreseeable future, including the next 12 months. From time to time, depending on market conditions, our capital requirements and the availability of financing, among other things, we may seek to refinance our existing debt and may incur additional indebtedness. Our primary recurrent sources of liquidity are cash from operations and cash from borrowings, which are subject to general, economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control, as described in Part I Item 1A. "Risk Factors" under the heading " The level of our current and future debt... " Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures The following tables provide reconciliations of adjusted operating income (loss) to operating income (loss) as presented on a U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) basis for our U.S. dialysis reportable segment as well as for our U.S. IKC business, our U.S. other ancillary services, our international business, and for our total ancillary services which combines them and is disclosed as our other segments category, in addition to our corporate administrative support. In connection with a comment letter from the Securities and Exchange Commission Staff, beginning in the second quarter of 2024, we have updated the presentation of our non-GAAP measures to no longer exclude center closure costs for all periods presented. To facilitate comparisons, the non-GAAP measures presented for prior periods have also been conformed to the presentation of non-GAAP measures for the current period. These non-GAAP or "adjusted" measures are presented because management believes these measures are useful adjuncts to, but not alternatives for, our GAAP results. Specifically, management uses adjusted operating income (loss) to compare and evaluate our performance period over period and relative to competitors, to analyze the underlying trends in our business, to establish operational budgets and forecasts and for incentive compensation purposes. We believe this non-GAAP measure is also useful to investors and analysts in evaluating our performance over time and relative to competitors, as well as in analyzing the underlying trends in our business. We also believe this presentation enhances a user's understanding of our normal operating income by excluding certain items which we do not believe are indicative of our ordinary results of operations. 73 In addition, our effective income tax rate on income attributable to DaVita Inc. excludes noncontrolling owners' income, which primarily relates to non-tax paying entities. We believe this adjusted effective income tax rate is useful to management, investors and analysts in evaluating our performance and establishing expectations for income taxes incurred on our ordinary results attributable to DaVita Inc. Finally, our free cash flow represents net cash provided by operating activities less distributions to noncontrolling interests, development capital expenditures, and maintenance capital expenditures; plus contributions from noncontrolling interests and proceeds from the sale of self-developed properties. Management uses this measure to assess our ability to fund acquisitions and meet our debt service obligations and we believe this measure is equally useful to investors and analysts as an adjunct to cash flows from operating activities and other measures under GAAP. It is important to bear in mind that these non-GAAP "adjusted" measures are not measures of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered in isolation from, nor as substitutes for, their most comparable GAAP measures. Year ended December 31, 2024 U.S. dialysis Ancillary services Corporate administration U.S. IKC U.S. Other International Total Consolidated (dollars in millions) Operating income (loss) $ 2,121 $ (35) $ (9) $ 127 $ 83 $ (113) $ 2,090 Gain on changes in ownership interests (1) (35) (74) (74) (109) Adjusted operating income (loss) (2) $ 2,086 $ (35) $ (9) $ 52 $ 8 $ (113) $ 1,981 Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers. Year ended December 31, 2023 U.S. dialysis Ancillary services Corporate administration U.S. IKC U.S. Other International Total Consolidated (dollars in millions) Operating income (loss) $ 1,775 $ (39) $ (25) $ 55 $ (9) $ (163) $ 1,603 Severance and other costs (3) 27 1 28 Legal matter (4) 40 40 IKC adjustment (5) (55) (55) (55) Earn-out revaluation (6) (8) (8) (8) Goodwill impairment (6) 26 26 26 Adjusted operating income (loss) (2) $ 1,801 $ (93) $ (7) $ 55 $ (45) $ (122) $ 1,635 Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers. (1) Represents non-cash gains recognized on the acquisitions of controlling financial interests in previously nonconsolidated partnerships in 2024. See additional discussion above under the heading " Gain on changes in ownership interests " within " U.S. dialysis results of operations " and "Ancillary services results of operation" for the $35 million and $74 million, respectively. These gains were to mark our prior investments in these businesses to fair value before consolidation and to recognize related foreign currency gains from translation adjustments previously deferred in accumulated other comprehensive loss. Gains on changes in business ownership interests do not represent a normal and recurring requirement of operating our business or generating revenues and may obscure analysis of underlying trends and financial performance. (2) In connection with the conclusion of a comment letter from the Securities and Exchange Commission Staff in July 2024, beginning in the second quarter 2024, we have updated the presentation of our non-GAAP measures to no longer exclude center closure costs for all periods presented. To facilitate comparisons, the non-GAAP measures presented for prior periods also have been conformed to the presentation of the non-GAAP measures for the current period. (3) Includes severance and other termination costs related to a prior strategic restructuring initiative and associated transition of certain general and administrative support functions to a third party. See additional discussion above under the heading " Severance costs " within " U.S. dialysis results of operations " and " Severance and other costs " within " Ancillary services results of operations ". (4) Represents an amount that was accrued for costs prior to agreement on a third-party settlement for the matter further described in Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements under the heading " 2017 U.S. Attorney Colorado Investigation ". We have excluded this charge, which had been previously disclosed, from our non-GAAP metrics because, among other things, we do not believe it is indicative of our ordinary results of operations. In this instance, among the factors considered were that the claim relates to prior ancillary operations or activities that we sold or closed (or otherwise ceased) prior to June 2020, and the charge is significant and may obscure analysis of underlying trends and financial performance of our current business. 74 (5) Our fiscal year 2023 results included a majority of shared savings revenues earned for both 2022 and 2023 as a result of a general shift in the timing of recognition for shared savings under our VBC contracts with health plans due to the lifting of certain revenue recognition constraints in 2023. This amount represents the effect of shared savings revenues recognized in 2023 incremental to what we would have recognized in 2023 under prior year constraints. We have excluded this benefit to operating income because it is both unusual to our business and significant in size, and may obscure analysis of underlying trends and financial performance. See additional discussion above under " IKC adjustment" within " Ancillary services results of operations" . (6) Represents a goodwill impairment charge, and related gain from a reduction in earn-out obligation values, for our transplant software business. See additional discussion above under the heading " Goodwill impairment charge and related items" within " Ancillary services results of operations" . This charge and this gain are excluded from our non-GAAP metrics because they do not occur in or reflect the ordinary course of our ongoing business operations, are inherently unpredictable and, in the case of impairments, are non-cash amounts, the exclusion of which facilitates comparison of historical, current, and forecasted financial results. Year ended December 31, 2024 2023 (dollars in millions) Income before income taxes $ 1,530 $ 1,177 Less: Noncontrolling owners income primarily attributable to non-tax paying entities (315) (263) Income before income taxes attributable to DaVita Inc. $ 1,215 $ 914 Income tax expense $ 280 $ 220 Income tax attributable to noncontrolling interests (1) 2 Income tax expense attributable to DaVita Inc. $ 279 $ 222 Effective income tax rate on income attributable to DaVita Inc. 22.9 % 24.3 % Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers. Year ended December 31, 2024 2023 (dollars in millions) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 2,022 $ 2,059 Adjustments to reconcile net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow: Distributions to noncontrolling interests (337) (281) Contributions from noncontrolling interests 14 15 Maintenance capital expenditures (394) (406) Development capital expenditures (162) (162) Proceeds from sale of self-developed properties 18 11 Free cash flow $ 1,162 $ 1,236 Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers. 75 Off-balance sheet arrangements and aggregate contractual obligations In addition to the debt obligations and operating lease liabilities reflected on our balance sheet, we have commitments associated with letters of credit as well as certain working capital funding obligations associated with our equity investments in nonconsolidated dialysis ventures that we manage and some we manage that are wholly-owned by third parties. We also have potential obligations to purchase the noncontrolling interests held by third parties in many of our majority-owned dialysis partnerships and other nonconsolidated entities. These obligations are in the form of put provisions that are exercisable at the third-party owners discretion within specified periods as outlined in each specific put provision. For additional information see Notes 16 and 23 to the consolidated financial statements. The following is a summary of these cash contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2024: 2025 2026-2027 2028-2029 Thereafter Total (dollars in millions) Debt and leases: Long-term debt (1) : Principal payments $ 243 $ 315 $ 1,911 $ 6,826 $ 9,295 Interest payments on credit facilities and senior notes 500 967 746 489 2,702 Financing leases (2) 28 62 51 75 216 Operating leases, including imputed interest (2) 508 971 696 864 3,039 $ 1,279 $ 2,315 $ 3,404 $ 8,254 $ 15,252 Partnership interests subject to put provisions: (3) On-balance sheet: Noncontrolling interests subject to put provisions 1,527 84 44 40 1,695 Off-balance sheet: Non-owned and minority owned put provisions 57 57 $ 1,584 $ 84 $ 44 $ 40 $ 1,752 (1) See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for components of our long-term debt and related interest rates. (2) See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for components of our leases and related interest rates. (3) Represents amounts for which we are contractually committed, should the outside partner exercise its put option. As of December 31, 2024 we had outstanding letters of credit in the aggregate amount of approximately $161 million under a separate bilateral secured letter of credit facility. As of December 31, 2024 we have outstanding purchase agreements with various suppliers to purchase set amounts of dialysis equipment, parts, pharmaceuticals, and supplies. If we fail to meet the minimum purchase commitments under these contracts during any year, we are required to pay the difference to the supplier. For additional information see Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements. We also have certain potential commitments to provide working capital funding, if necessary, to certain nonconsolidated dialysis businesses that we manage and in which we own a noncontrolling equity interest or which are wholly-owned by third parties. For additional information see Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements. Additionally, we expect our 2025 capital expenditures to be consistent with our 2024 capital expenditures. In addition, we have approximately $39 million of existing long-term income tax liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits, including interest and penalties, which are excluded from the table above as reasonably reliable estimates of their timing cannot be made. On March 5, 2024, we entered into four separate purchase agreements with Fresenius Medical Care AG and its affiliates to acquire their dialysis service operations in Chile, Ecuador, Colombia and Brazil. The Chile, Ecuador and Colombia transactions closed during 2024. The Brazil transaction is expected to close mid-year 2025 and remains subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approval. The expected cash payment for this remaining transaction is approximately $100 million, subject to certain customary adjustments. 76 Contingencies The information in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report is incorporated by reference in response to this item. Critical accounting policies, estimates and judgments Our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. These accounting principles require us to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets, liabilities, contingencies and noncontrolling interests subject to put provisions (redeemable equity interests). All significant estimates, judgments and assumptions are developed based on the best information available to us at the time made and are regularly reviewed and updated when necessary. Actual results will generally differ from these estimates, and such differences may be material. Changes in estimates are reflected in our financial statements in the period of change based upon on-going actual experience trends or subsequent settlements and realizations depending on the nature and predictability of the estimates and contingencies. Certain accounting estimates, including those concerning revenue recognition and accounts receivable, fair value estimates for goodwill and noncontrolling interests, accounting for income taxes, and loss contingencies are considered to be critical to evaluating and understanding our financial results because they involve inherently uncertain matters and their application requires the most difficult and complex judgments and estimates. For additional information, see Part IV Item 15, " Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules" Note 1 "Organization and summary of significant accounting policies " as referred from Part II Item 8, " Financial Statements and Supplementary Data ." Revenue recognition and accounts receivable for our U.S. dialysis patient services . There are significant estimating risks associated with the amount of U.S. dialysis patient service revenue that we recognize in a given reporting period. Payment rates are often subject to significant uncertainties related to wide variations in the coverage terms of the commercial healthcare plans under which we receive payments. In addition, ongoing insurance coverage changes, geographic coverage differences, differing interpretations of contract coverage, and other payor issues complicate the billing and collection process. The measurement and recognition of revenue requires the use of estimates of the amounts that will ultimately be realized considering, among other items, retroactive adjustments that may be associated with regulatory reviews, audits, billing reviews and other matters. Revenues associated with Medicare and Medicaid programs are recognized based on (a) the payment rates that are established by statute or regulation for the portion of the payment rates paid by the government payor (e.g., 80% for Medicare patients) and (b) for the portion not paid by the primary government payor, the estimated amounts that will ultimately be collectible from other government programs providing secondary coverage (e.g., Medicaid secondary coverage), the patient commercial health plan secondary coverage, or the patient. Our dialysis-related reimbursements from Medicare are subject to certain variations under Medicare single bundled payment rate system whereby our reimbursements can be adjusted for certain patient characteristics and other variable factors. Our revenue recognition depends upon our ability to effectively capture, document and bill for Medicare base payment rate and these other factors. In addition, as a result of the potential range of variations that can occur in our dialysis-related reimbursements from Medicare under the single bundled payment rate system, our revenue recognition is subject to a greater degree of estimating risk. Commercial healthcare plans, including contracted managed-care payors, are billed at our usual and customary rates; however, revenue is recognized based on estimated net realizable revenue for the services provided. Net realizable revenue is estimated based on contractual terms for the patients covered under commercial healthcare plans with which we have formal agreements, non-contracted commercial healthcare plan coverage terms if known, estimated secondary collections, historical collection experience, historical trends of refunds and payor payment adjustments (retractions), inefficiencies in our billing and collection processes that can result in denied claims for payments, the estimated timing of collections, changes in our expectations of the amounts that we expect to collect and regulatory compliance matters. Determining applicable primary and secondary coverage for our approximately 200,800 U.S. dialysis patients at any given point in time, together with the changes in patient coverages that occur each month, requires complex, resource-intensive processes. Collections, refunds and payor retractions typically continue to occur for up to three years or longer after services are provided. We generally expect the range of our U.S. dialysis revenue estimating risk to be within 1% of revenue, which can represent as much as approximately 5% of our U.S. dialysis business operating income and adjusted operating income. Changes in estimates are reflected in the then-current financial statements based on on-going actual experience trends, or subsequent settlements and realizations depending on the nature and predictability of the estimates and contingencies. Changes in revenue estimates for prior periods are separately disclosed and reported if material to the current reporting period and longer term trend analyses, and have not been significant. Revenues for laboratory services, which are integrally related to our dialysis services, are recognized in the period services are provided at the estimated net realizable amounts to be received. 77 Certain fair value estimates. Fair value measurements and estimates affect, or potentially affect, a variety of elements in the Company's financial statements. Two of the elements most significantly impacted by fair value estimates are the Company's goodwill impairment assessments and remeasurements of its noncontrolling interests subject to put provisions balance. Goodwill is not amortized, but is assessed for impairment at least annually, or when changes in circumstances warrant. An impairment charge is recorded when and to the extent a reporting unit's carrying amount is determined to exceed its estimated fair value. Changes in circumstance that may trigger a goodwill impairment assessment for one of our business units can include, among others, changes in the legal environment, addressable market, business strategy, development or business plans, reimbursement structure or rates, operating performance, future prospects, relationships with partners, interest rates and/or market value indications for the subject business. We use a variety of factors to assess changes in the financial condition, future prospects and other circumstances for businesses subject to goodwill impairment assessment. However, these assessments and the related valuations can involve significant uncertainties and require significant judgment on various matters. The Company is also required to remeasure its noncontrolling interests subject to put provisions to estimated fair value each reporting period. These estimates also require substantive judgment on meaningful uncertainties concerning this significant balance. See Notes 16 and 23 to the consolidated financial statements for a summary of the Company's approach to these valuations, the variables and uncertainties involved, and the sensitivity of these valuations to changes in a primary aggregate valuation metric. Accounting for income taxes . Our income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits reflect management best assessment of estimated current and future taxes to be paid. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous state and foreign jurisdictions, and changes in tax laws or regulations may be proposed or enacted that could adversely affect our overall tax liability. The actual impact of any such laws or regulations could be materially different from our current estimates. Significant judgments and estimates are required in determining our consolidated income tax expense. Deferred income taxes arise from temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements, which will result in taxable or deductible amounts in the future. In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets within the jurisdictions from which they arise, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, results of recent operations, and assumptions about the amount of future federal, state, and foreign pre-tax operating income adjusted for items that do not have tax consequences. The assumptions about future taxable income require significant judgments and are consistent with the plans and estimates we use to manage the underlying businesses. To the extent that recovery is not likely, a valuation allowance is established. The allowance is regularly reviewed and updated for changes in circumstances that would cause a change in judgment about the realizability of the related deferred tax assets. Loss contingencies. As discussed in Notes 1 and 15 to the consolidated financial statements, we operate in a highly regulated industry and are party to various lawsuits, claims, qui tam suits, governmental investigations and audits (including, without limitation, investigations or other actions resulting from our obligation to self-report suspected violations of law), contract disputes and other legal proceedings. Assessments of such matters can involve a series of complex judgments about future events and can rely heavily on estimates and assumptions. We record accruals for loss contingencies on such matters to the extent that we determine an unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. See Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report for further discussion. Significant new accounting standards See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report for information regarding certain recent financial accounting standards that have been issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). 78 
