CIK: 939767
Company Name: EXELIXIS INC 
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2014-02-20
Accession Number: 0000939767-14-000009


ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Some of the statements under in this Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations are forward-looking statements. These statements are based on our current expectations, assumptions, estimates and projections about our business and our industry and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our company or our industry results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied in, or contemplated by, the forward-looking statements. Words such as believe, anticipate, expect, intend, plan, focus, assume, goal, objective, will, may would, could, estimate, predict, potential, continue, encouraging or the negative of such terms or other similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Our actual results and the timing of events may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such a difference include those discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors as well as those discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These and many other factors could affect our future financial and operating results. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events after the date of this report. Overview We are a biotechnology company committed to developing small molecule therapies for the treatment of cancer. Our two most advanced assets, COMETRIQ (cabozantinib), our wholly-owned inhibitor of multiple receptor tyrosine kinases, and cobimetinib (GDC-0973/XL518), a potent, highly selective inhibitor of MEK, which we out-licensed to Genentech, are currently the subject of six ongoing phase 3 pivotal trials. Top-line results from four of these pivotal trials are expected in 2014. We are focusing our proprietary resources and development and commercialization efforts primarily on COMETRIQ (cabozantinib), which was approved on November 29, 2012, by the FDA, for the treatment of progressive, metastatic medullary thyroid cancer, or MTC, in the United States, where it became commercially available in late January 2013. In December 2013, the European Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use, or CHMP, issued a positive opinion on the Marketing Authorization Application, or MAA, submitted to the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, for COMETRIQ for the proposed indication of metastatic MTC. The CHMP positive opinion will be reviewed by the European Commission, which has the authority to approve medicines for the European Union. Cabozantinib is being evaluated in a broad development program, including two ongoing phase 3 pivotal trials in metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer, or CRPC, an ongoing phase 3 pivotal trial in metastatic renal cell cancer, or RCC, and an ongoing phase 3 pivotal trial in advanced hepatocellular cancer, or HCC. We believe cabozantinib has the potential to be a high-quality, broadly-active and differentiated anti-cancer agent that can make a meaningful difference in the lives of patients. Our objective is to develop cabozantinib into a major oncology franchise, and we believe that the approval of COMETRIQ (cabozantinib) for the treatment of progressive, metastatic MTC provides us with the opportunity to establish a commercial presence in furtherance of this objective. We currently expect top-line data from our two phase 3 pivotal trials of cabozantinib in CRPC and the overall survival analysis of our phase 3 pivotal trial of cabozantinib in progressive, metastatic MTC in 2014. Cobimetinib is also being evaluated in a broad development program, including a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase 3 clinical trial evaluating the combination of cobimetinib with vemurafenib versus vemurafenib in previously untreated BRAFV600 mutation positive patients with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic melanoma that was initiated on November 1, 2012. Roche and Genentech have provided guidance that they expect top-line data from this trial in 2014. Under the terms of our co-development agreement with Genentech for cobimetinib, we are entitled to an initial equal share of U.S. profits and losses for cobimetinib, which will decrease as sales increase, and will share equally in the U.S. marketing and commercialization costs. The profit share has multiple tiers we are entitled to 50% of profits from the first $200 million of U.S. actual sales, decreasing to 30% of profits from U.S. actual sales in excess of $400 million. We are entitled to low double-digit royalties on ex-U.S. net sales. In November 2013, we exercised an option under the co-development agreement to co-promote in the United States. We will provide up to 25% of the total sales force for cobimetinib in the United States if commercialized, and will call on customers and otherwise engage in promotional activities using that sales force, consistent with the terms of the co-development agreement and a co-promotion agreement to be entered into by the parties. Our Strategy We believe that the available clinical data demonstrate that cabozantinib has the potential to be a broadly active anti-cancer agent, and our objective is to build cabozantinib into a major oncology franchise. The initial regulatory approval of 39 Table of Contents COMETRIQ (cabozantinib) to treat progressive, metastatic MTC provides a niche market opportunity that allows us to gain commercialization experience while providing a solid foundation for potential expansion into larger cancer indications. We are focusing our internal efforts on cancers for which we believe cabozantinib has significant therapeutic and commercial potential in the near term, while utilizing our CRADA with NCI-CTEP and ISTs, to generate additional data to allow us to prioritize future late stage trials in a cost-effective fashion. We believe that this staged approach to building value represents the most rational and effective use of our resources. Collaborations We have established collaborations with leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including Genentech, GlaxoSmithKline, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Sanofi, GlaxoSmithKline, Merck and Daiichi Sankyo, for various compounds and programs in our portfolio. Pursuant to these collaborations, we have out-licensed compounds or programs to a partner for further development and commercialization, have no further development cost obligations related to such compounds or programs and may be entitled to receive milestones and royalties or a share of profits from commercialization. As disclosed on ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT01689519), a phase 3 clinical trial for one of these compounds, cobimetinib (GDC-0973/XL518), which we out-licensed to Genentech, was initiated on November 1, 2012 . In addition, several other out-licensed compounds are in multiple phase 2 studies. These partnered compounds could potentially be of significant value to us if their development progresses successfully. With respect to our partnered compounds, we are eligible to receive potential contingent payments under our collaborations totaling approximately $2.4 billion in the aggregate on a non-risk adjusted basis, of which 10% are related to clinical development milestones, 41% are related to regulatory milestones and 49% are related to commercial milestones , all to be achieved by the various licensees . Certain Factors Important to Understanding Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations Successful development of drugs is inherently difficult and uncertain. Our business requires significant investments in research and development over many years, and products often fail during the research and development process. Our long-term prospects depend upon our ability, and the ability of our partners to successfully commercialize new therapeutics in highly competitive areas such as cancer treatment. Our financial performance is driven by many factors, including those described below. Limited Sources of Revenues COMETRIQ was approved by the FDA for the treatment of progressive, metastatic MTC in the United States on November 29, 2012 . We commercially launched COMETRIQ in late January 2013 . We currently estimate that there are between 500 and 700 first- and second-line metastatic MTC patients diagnosed each year in the United States who will be eligible for COMETRIQ, and as a result we only expect to generate limited revenues from the sale of COMETRIQ in MTC. Effective October 29, 2013, the wholesale acquisition price for COMETRIQ is $10,395 for a 28-day supply of all dosage strengths. Prior to the approval of COMETRIQ, we had no pharmaceutical product that had received marketing approval, and from the commercial launch through December 31, 2013 , we generated $15.0 million in net revenues from the sale of COMETRIQ. We have derived substantially all of our revenues since inception from collaborative research and development agreements. Revenues from research and development collaborations depend on research funding, the achievement of milestones and royalties we earn from any future products developed from the collaborative research. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013, we completed the recognition of deferred revenue derived from research funding under our existing collaborative research and development agreements. Any future revenue derived from our existing collaborative research and development agreements will depend on the achievement of milestones and royalties we earn from any future products developed from the collaborations. We do not expect any significant contingent or milestone payments in 2014. Our collaborative research and development agreements may be terminated or allowed to expire. In June 2013 we received a written notice from Bristol-Myers Squibb of its decision to terminate a global license agreement pursuant to which we granted to Bristol-Myers Squibb a license to our small-molecule TGR5 agonist program. In October 2013 we received a written notice from Bristol-Myers Squibb of its decision to terminate our December 2006 collaboration agreement, pursuant to which the parties agreed to discover, develop and commercialize novel targeted therapies for the treatment of cancer. As a result of the terminations, we will no longer be eligible to receive milestones or royalties from either of these collaborative arrangements. 40 Table of Contents Clinical Development of Cabozantinib We have focused our proprietary resources and development efforts on the development of cabozantinib. However, the product candidate may fail to show adequate safety or efficacy in clinical testing. Furthermore, predicting the timing of the initiation or completion of clinical trials is difficult, and our trials may be delayed due to many factors, including factors outside of our control. The future development path of cabozantinib depends upon the results of each stage of clinical development. We expect to incur increased expenses for the development of cabozantinib as it advances in clinical development. Liquidity As of December 31, 2013 , we had $415.9 million in cash and investments, which included short- and long-term restricted cash and investments of $12.2 million and $16.9 million , respectively, and short- and long-term unrestricted investments of $138.5 million and $144.3 million , respectively. We are required to maintain on deposit with Silicon Valley Bank or one of its affiliates short- and long-term unrestricted investments of $1.8 million and $81.9 million , respectively, pursuant to covenants in our loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank. We anticipate that our current cash and cash equivalents, short- and long-term investments and product revenues will enable us to maintain our operations for a period of at least 12 months following the end of 2013. However, our future capital requirements will be substantial, and we may need to raise additional capital in the future. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, and we may need to use available capital resources and raise additional capital significantly earlier than we currently anticipate. Our minimum liquidity needs are also determined by financial covenants in our loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank as well as other factors, which are described under Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Requirements. Our ability to raise additional funds may be severely impaired if cabozantinib fails to show adequate safety or efficacy in clinical testing. Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes In August 2012 , we issued and sold $287.5 million aggregate principal amount of the 2019 Notes, for net proceeds of $277.7 million . The 2019 Notes mature on August 15, 2019 , unless earlier converted, redeemed or repurchased, and bear interest at a rate of 4.25% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears on February 15 and August 15 of each year, beginning February 15, 2013 . Subject to certain terms and conditions, at any time on or after August 15, 2016 , we may redeem for cash all or a portion of the 2019 Notes. The redemption price will equal 100% of the principal amount of the 2019 Notes to be redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding, the redemption date. Upon the occurrence of certain circumstances, holders may convert their 2019 Notes prior to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding May 15, 2019 . On or after May 15, 2019 , until the close of business on the second trading day immediately preceding August 15, 2019 , holders may surrender their 2019 Notes for conversion at any time. Upon conversion, we will pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock, at our election. The initial conversion rate of 188.2353 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of the 2019 Notes is equivalent to a conversion price of approximately $5.31 per share of common stock and is subject to adjustment in connection with certain events. If a Fundamental Change (as defined in the indenture governing the 2019 Notes) occurs, holders of the 2019 Notes may require us to purchase for cash all or any portion of their 2019 Notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be purchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding, the Fundamental Change purchase date. In addition, if certain bankruptcy and insolvency-related events of defaults occur, the principal of, and accrued and unpaid interest on, all of the then outstanding notes shall automatically become due and payable. If an event of default other than certain bankruptcy and insolvency-related events of defaults occurs and is continuing, the Trustee by notice to us or the holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the outstanding 2019 Notes by notice to us and the Trustee, may declare the principal of, and accrued and unpaid interest on, all of the then outstanding 2019 Notes to be due and payable. In connection with the offering of the 2019 Notes, $36.5 million of the proceeds were deposited into an escrow account which contains an amount of permitted securities sufficient to fund, when due, the total aggregate amount of the first six scheduled semi-annual interest payments on the 2019 Notes. As of December 31, 2013 , we have used $12.3 million of the amounts held in the escrow account to pay the required semi-annual interest payments. The short- and long-term amounts held in the escrow account as of December 31, 2013 were $12.2 million and $16.9 million , respectively, and are included in short- and long-term restricted cash and investments. We have pledged our interest in the escrow account to the Trustee as security for our obligations under the 2019 Notes. 41 Table of Contents Deerfield Facility In June 2010, we entered into a note purchase agreement with Deerfield Private Design Fund, L.P. and Deerfield Private Design International, L.P., or the Original Deerfield Purchasers, pursuant to which, on July 1, 2010, we sold to the Original Deerfield Purchasers an aggregate of $124.0 million initial principal amount our Secured Convertible Notes due July 1, 2015, which we refer as the Deerfield Notes, for an aggregate purchase price of $80.0 million , less closing fees and expenses of approximately $2.0 million. As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, the remaining outstanding principal balance on the Deerfield Notes was $114.0 million and $124.0 million , respectively. We refer to the Original Deerfield Purchasers and the New Deerfield Purchasers (identified below) collectively as Deerfield. The outstanding principal amount of the Deerfield Notes bears interest in the annual amount of $6.0 million , payable quarterly in arrears. During the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, total interest expense for the Deerfield Notes was $16.1 million , $15.9 million , and $14.3 million , respectively, including the stated coupon rate and the amortization of the debt discount and debt issuance costs. The non-cash expense relating to the amortization of the debt discount and debt issuance costs was $10.1 million , $9.9 million , and $8.3 million , respectively, during those periods. The balance of unamortized fees and costs was $1.4 million and $2.3 million as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, which is recorded in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet as Other assets. On August 6, 2012, the parties amended the note purchase agreement to permit the issuance of the 2019 Notes and modify certain optional prepayment rights. The amendment became effective upon the issuance of the 2019 Notes and the payment to the Original Deerfield Purchasers of a $1.5 million consent fee. On August 1, 2013, the parties further amended the note purchase agreement to clarify certain of our other rights under the note purchase agreement. On January 22, 2014, the note purchase agreement was further amended to provide us with an option to extend the maturity date of our indebtedness under the note purchase agreement to July 1, 2018. Under the terms of the extension option, we have the right to require Deerfield Partners, L.P. and Deerfield International Master Fund, L.P., or the New Deerfield Purchasers, to acquire $100 million principal amount of the Deerfield Notes and extend the maturity date thereof to July 1, 2018. We are under no obligation to exercise the extension option. To exercise the extension option, we must provide a notice of exercise to Deerfield prior to March 31, 2015. If we exercise the extension option, the Deerfield Notes would mature on July 1, 2018 and bear interest on and after July 2, 2015 at the rate of 7.5% per annum to be paid in cash, quarterly in arrears, and 7.5% per annum to be paid in kind, quarterly in arrears, for a total interest rate of 15% per annum. In each of January 2014 and 2013, we made mandatory prepayments of $10.0 million on the Deerfield Notes. We will be required to make an additional mandatory prepayment on the Deerfield Notes in 2015 equal to 15% of certain revenues from collaborative arrangements, which we refer to as Development/Commercialization Revenue, received during the prior fiscal year, subject to a maximum prepayment amount of $27.5 million. There is no minimum prepayment due in 2015. Our obligation to make annual mandatory prepayments equal to 15% of Development/Commercialization Revenue received by us during the prior fiscal year will apply in each of 2016, 2017 and 2018 if we exercise the extension option. However, we will only be obligated to make any such annual mandatory prepayment after exercise of the extension option if the New Deerfield Purchasers provide notice to us of their election to receive the prepayment. Mandatory prepayments relating to Development/Commercialization Revenue will continue to be subject to a maximum annual prepayment amount of $27.5 million. The definition of Development/Commercialization Revenue expressly excludes any sale or distribution of drug or pharmaceutical products in the ordinary course of our business, and any proceeds from any Intellectual Property Sales (as further described below). As a result of the January 2014 amendment, we are required to notify the applicable Deerfield entities of certain sales, assignments, grants of exclusive licenses or other transfers of our intellectual property pursuant to which we transfer all or substantially all of our legal or economic interests, defined as an Intellectual Property Sale, and the Deerfield entities may elect to require us to prepay the principal amount of the Deerfield Notes in an amount equal to (i) 100% of the cash proceeds of any Intellectual Property Sale relating to cabozantinib and (ii) 50% of the cash proceeds of any other Intellectual Property Sale. Under the note purchase agreement as amended, we may voluntarily prepay the principal amount of the Deerfield Notes as follows (the amount at which we repay in each case below is referred to as the Prepayment Price): Prior to July 1, 2015: we may prepay all of the principal amount of the Deerfield Notes at any time at a prepayment price equal to the outstanding principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest through the date of such prepayment, plus all interest that would have accrued on the principal amount of the Deerfield Notes between the date of such prepayment and the applicable maturity date of the Deerfield Notes if the outstanding principal amount of the Deerfield Notes as of such prepayment date had remained outstanding through the applicable maturity date, plus all other accrued and unpaid obligations; and 42 Table of Contents If we exercise the extension option: we may prepay all of the principal amount of the Deerfield Notes at a prepayment price equal to 105% of the outstanding principal amount of the Deerfield Notes, plus all accrued and unpaid interest through the date of such prepayment, plus, if prior to July 1, 2017, all interest that would have accrued on the principal amount of the Deerfield Notes between the date of such prepayment and July 1, 2017, if the outstanding principal amount of the Deerfield Notes as of such prepayment date had remained outstanding through July 1, 2017, plus all other accrued and unpaid obligations, collectively referred to as the Prepayment Price. In lieu of making any portion of the Prepayment Price or mandatory prepayment in cash, subject to certain limitations (including a cap on the number of shares issuable under the note purchase agreement), we have the right to convert all or a portion of the principal amount of the Deerfield Notes into, or satisfy all or any portion of the Prepayment Price amounts or mandatory prepayment amounts with shares of our common stock. Additionally, in lieu of making any payment of accrued and unpaid interest in respect of the Deerfield Notes in cash, subject to certain limitations, we may elect to satisfy any such payment with shares of our common stock. The number of shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion or in settlement of principal and interest obligations will be based upon the discounted trading price of our common stock over a specified trading period. Upon certain changes of control of our company, a sale or transfer of assets in one transaction or a series of related transactions for a purchase price of more than (i) $400 million or (ii) 50% of our market capitalization, Deerfield may require us to prepay the Deerfield Notes at the Prepayment Price. Upon an event of default, Deerfield may declare all or a portion of the Prepayment Price to be immediately due and payable. In connection with the January 2014 amendment to the note purchase agreement, on January 22, 2014 we issued to the New Deerfield Purchasers two-year warrants, we which we refer to as the 2014 Deerfield Warrants, to purchase an aggregate of 1,000,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $9.70 per share. If we exercise the extension option, the exercise price will be reset to the lower of (x) the existing exercise price and (y) 120% of the volume weighted average price of our common stock for the ten trading days immediately following the date of such extension election. The 2014 Deerfield Warrants are exercisable for a term of two years, subject to a two year extension if we exercise the extension option, and contain certain limitations that prevent the holder of the 2014 Deerfield Warrants from acquiring shares upon exercise of a Warrant that would result in the number of shares beneficially owned by the holder to exceed 9.98% of the total number of shares of our common stock then issued and outstanding. The number of shares for which the 2014 Deerfield Warrants are exercisable and the associated exercise prices are subject to certain adjustments as set forth in the 2014 Deerfield Warrants. In addition, upon certain changes in control of our company, to the extent the 2014 Deerfield Warrants are not assumed by the acquiring entity, or upon certain defaults under the 2014 Deerfield Warrants, the holder has the right to net exercise the 2014 Deerfield Warrants for shares of common stock, or be paid an amount in cash in certain circumstances where the current holders of our common stock would also receive cash, equal to the Black-Scholes Merton value of the 2014 Deerfield Warrants. In connection with the issuance of the 2014 Deerfield Warrants, we entered into a registration rights agreement with Deerfield, pursuant to which we agreed to file, no later than February 21, 2014, a registration statement with the SEC covering the resale of the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the 2014 Deerfield Warrants. In connection with the note purchase agreement, we also entered into a security agreement in favor of Deerfield which provides that our obligations under the Deerfield Notes will be secured by substantially all of our assets except intellectual property. On August 1, 2013, the security agreement was amended to limit the extent to which voting equity interests in any of our foreign subsidiaries shall be secured assets. The note purchase agreement as amended and the security agreement include customary representations and warranties and covenants made by us, including restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness. Loan Agreement with Silicon Valley Bank On May 22, 2002, we entered into a loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank for an equipment line of credit. On December 21, 2004, December 21, 2006 and December 21, 2007, we amended the loan and security agreement to provide for additional equipment lines of credit and on June 2, 2010, we further amended the loan and security agreement to provide for a new seven-year term loan in the amount of $80.0 million . As of December 31, 2013 , the combined outstanding principal balance due under the lines of credit and term loan was $82.1 million , compared to $85.3 million as of December 31, 2012 . The principal amount outstanding under the term loan accrues interest at 1.0% per annum, which interest is due and payable monthly. We are required to repay the term loan in one balloon principal payment, representing 100% of the principal balance and accrued and unpaid interest, on May 31, 2017. We are required to repay any advances under an equipment line of credit in 48 equal monthly payments of principal and interest. We have the option to prepay all, but not less than all, of the amounts advanced under the term loan, provided that we pay all unpaid accrued interest thereon that is due through the date of such prepayment and the interest on the entire principal balance of the term loan that would otherwise have been paid after such 43 Table of Contents prepayment date until the maturity date of the term loan. We have the option to prepay without penalty any advance under an equipment line of credit other than advances under a single equipment line of credit, which has a 1.0% prepayment penalty, provided that we pay all unpaid accrued interest thereon that is due through the date of such prepayment. In accordance with the terms of the loan and security agreement, we are required to maintain an amount equal to at least 100%, but not to exceed 107%, of the outstanding principal balance of the term loan and all equipment lines of credit under the loan and security agreement on deposit in one or more investment accounts with Silicon Valley Bank or one of its affiliates as support for our obligations under the loan and security agreement (although we are entitled to retain income earned or the amounts maintained in such accounts). Any amounts outstanding under the term loan during the continuance of an event of default under the loan and security agreement will, at the election of Silicon Valley Bank, bear interest at a per annum rate equal to 6.0%. If one or more events of default under the loan and security agreement occurs and continues beyond any applicable cure period, Silicon Valley Bank may declare all or part of the obligations under the loan and security agreement to be immediately due and payable and stop advancing money or extending credit to us under the loan and security agreement. Restructurings Between March 2010 and May 2013, we implemented five restructurings, which we refer to collectively as the Restructurings, as a consequence of our decision to focus our proprietary resources and development efforts on the development and commercialization of cabozantinib and strategy to manage costs. The aggregate reduction in headcount from the Restructurings was 429 employees. We recorded charges and credits related to the Restructurings in periods other than those in which the Restructurings were implemented as a result of sublease activities for our buildings in South San Francisco, California, changes in assumptions regarding anticipated sublease activities, the effect of the passage of time on our discounted cash flow computations, previously planned employee terminations, and sales of excess equipment and other assets. We have recorded aggregate restructuring charges of $53.3 million from inception through December 31, 2013 in connection with the Restructurings, of which $29.2 million related to facility charges, $21.7 million related to termination benefits, $2.3 million related to the impairment of excess equipment and other assets, and an additional minor amount related to legal and other fees. Asset impairment charges, net were partially offset by cash proceeds of $2.7 million from the sale of such assets. For the years ended December 31, 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 we recorded restructuring charges of $1.2 million , $9.2 million , and $10.1 million , respectively, which related primarily to termination benefits and facility charges in connection with the exit of portions of certain of our buildings in South San Francisco. We expect to pay accrued facility charges of $13.5 million , net of cash received from our subtenants, through the end of our lease terms of the buildings, the last of which ends in 2017. With respect to our Restructurings, we expect to incur additional restructuring charges of approximately $0.9 million which relate to the exit, in prior periods, of certain of our South San Francisco buildings. These charges will be recorded through the end of the building lease terms, the last of which ends in 2017. The Restructurings have resulted in aggregate cash expenditures of $35.4 million , net of $10.2 million in cash received from subtenants and $2.7 million in cash received in connection with the sale of excess equipment and other assets. Net cash expenditures for the Restructurings were $6.7 million , $5.3 million and $9.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 , respectively. The restructuring charges that we expect to incur in connection with the Restructurings are subject to a number of assumptions, and actual results may materially differ. We may also incur other material charges not currently contemplated due to events that may occur as a result of, or associated with, the Restructurings. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of our consolidated financial statements is in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States which requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates including, but not limited to, those related to inventory, revenue recognition, valuation of long-lived assets, certain accrued liabilities including clinical trial accruals and restructuring liability, share-based compensation and the valuation of the debt and equity components of our convertible debt at issuance. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other market-specific and other relevant assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our senior management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. 44 Table of Contents An accounting policy is considered to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and if different estimates that reasonably could have been used, or changes in the accounting estimates that are reasonably likely to occur periodically, could materially impact the financial statements. We believe our critical accounting policies relating to revenue recognition, clinical trial accruals, inventory, stock option valuation, convertible debt valuation and restructuring liability reflect the more significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition Licenses and Contracts Revenues from license fees and milestone payments primarily consist of upfront license fees and milestone payments received under various collaboration agreements. We initially recognize upfront fees received from third party collaborators as unearned revenues and then recognize these amounts on a ratable basis over the expected term of the research collaboration. Therefore, any changes in the expected term of the research collaboration will impact revenue recognition for the given period. Often, the total research term is not contractually defined and an estimate of the term of our total obligation must be made. Although milestone payments are generally non-refundable once the milestone is achieved, we recognize milestone revenues on a straight-line basis over the expected research term of the arrangement. This typically results in a portion of a milestone being recognized on the date the milestone is achieved, with the balance being recognized over the remaining research term of the agreement. In certain situations, we may receive milestone payments after the end of our period of continued involvement. In such circumstances, we would recognize 100% of the milestone revenues when the milestone is achieved. Milestones are classified as contract revenues in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Collaborative agreement reimbursement revenues consist of research and development support received from collaborators and are recorded as earned based on the performance requirements by both parties under the respective contracts. Some of our research and licensing arrangements have multiple deliverables in order to meet our customer needs. For example, the arrangements may include a combination of intellectual property rights and research and development services. Multiple element revenue agreements are evaluated to determine whether the delivered item has value to the customer on a stand-alone basis and whether objective and reliable evidence of the fair value of the undelivered item exists. Deliverables in an arrangement that do not meet the separation criteria are treated as one unit of accounting for purposes of revenue recognition. Generally, the revenue recognition guidance applicable to the final deliverable is followed for the combined unit of accounting. For certain arrangements, the period of time over which certain deliverables will be provided is not contractually defined. Accordingly, management is required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Product Sales We recognize revenue when it is both realized or realizable and earned, meaning persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, title has transferred, the price is fixed or determinable, there are no remaining customer acceptance requirements, and collectability of the resulting receivable is reasonably assured. For product sales in the United States, this generally occurs upon shipment of the product to the patient by our distributor. For product sales in Europe, this occurs when our European distribution partner has accepted the product. We sell our product, COMETRIQ, in the United States to a specialty pharmacy that benefits from customer incentives and has a right of return. We have a limited sales history and cannot reliably estimate expected returns of the product nor the discounts and rebates due to payors at the time of shipment to the specialty pharmacy. Accordingly, upon shipment to the specialty pharmacy, we record deferred revenue on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We recognize revenue when the specialty pharmacy provides the product to a patient based on the fulfillment of a prescription. We record revenue using an analysis of prescription data from our specialty pharmacy to ascertain the date of shipment and the payor mix. This approach is frequently referred to as the sell-through revenue recognition model. Once the prescription has been provided to the patient, it is not subject to return unless the product is damaged. Product sales to our European distribution partner are not subject to customer incentives, rights of return or discounts and allowances. We record revenue at the time our European distribution partner has accepted the product, a method also known as the sell-in revenue recognition model. Product Sales Discounts and Allowances We calculate gross product revenues based on the price that we charge our United States specialty pharmacy and our European distribution partner. We estimate our United States net product revenues by deducting from our gross product 45 Table of Contents revenues (a) trade allowances, such as discounts for prompt payment, (b) estimated government rebates and chargebacks, and (c) estimated costs of patient assistance programs. We initially record estimates for these deductions at the time we recognize the gross revenue. We update our estimates on a recurring basis as new information becomes available. These discounts and allowances apply only to gross product revenues earned in the United States. See Note 1. Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the discounts and allowances we record on our product sales. Clinical Trial Accruals All of our clinical trials have been executed with support from CROs, and other vendors. We accrue costs for clinical trial activities performed by CROs based upon the estimated amount of work completed on each trial. For clinical trial expenses, the significant factors used in estimating accruals include the number of patients enrolled, the activities to be performed for each patient, the number of active clinical sites, and the duration for which the patients will be enrolled in the trial. We monitor patient enrollment levels and related activities to the extent possible through internal reviews, correspondence with CROs and review of contractual terms. We base our estimates on the best information available at the time. However, additional information may become available to us, which may allow us to make a more accurate estimate in future periods. In this event, we may be required to record adjustments to research and development expenses in future periods when the actual level of activity becomes more certain. Such increases or decreases in cost are generally considered to be changes in estimates and will be reflected in research and development expenses in the period first known. For example, during the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, we recorded a reduction related to prior periods of approximately $0.8 million , $2.7 million , and $1.6 million , respectively, to our accrued clinical trial liabilities and research and development expenses primarily related to our phase 2 and phase 3 clinical trials for cabozantinib. The reductions in these expenses were a result of changes in estimates of expected scans during planned patient visits and additional assessments that will no longer occur or which were subsequently covered by our patients insurance providers, as well as a reduction of our expected obligation in 2012 for lab services. Inventory We consider regulatory approval of product candidates to be uncertain and product manufactured prior to regulatory approval may not be sold unless regulatory approval is obtained. As such, the manufacturing costs for product candidates incurred prior to regulatory approval are not capitalized as inventory, but rather are expensed as research and development costs. When regulatory approval is obtained, capitalization of inventory may begin. On November 29, 2012 , the FDA approved our first product, COMETRIQ, for the treatment of progressive, metastatic MTC in the United States, where it became commercially available in late January 2013. Inventory is valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value. We determine the cost of inventory using the standard-cost method, which approximates actual cost based on a first-in, first-out method. We analyze our inventory levels quarterly and write down inventory that has become obsolete, or has a cost basis in excess of its expected net realizable value and inventory quantities in excess of expected requirements. Expired inventory is disposed of and the related costs are recognized as cost of goods sold in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Stock Option Valuation Our estimate of compensation expense requires us to determine the appropriate fair value model and a number of complex and subjective assumptions including our stock price volatility, employee exercise patterns, future forfeitures and related tax effects. The most significant assumptions are our estimates of the expected volatility and the expected term of the award. In addition, we are required to estimate the expected forfeiture rate, including assessing the likelihood of achieving our goals for performance-based stock options, and recognize expense only for those shares expected to vest. If our actual forfeiture rate is materially different from our estimate, the stock-based compensation expense could be significantly different from what we have recorded in the current period. The value of a stock option is derived from its potential for appreciation. The more volatile the stock, the more valuable the option becomes because of the greater possibility of significant changes in stock price. Because there is a market for options on our common stock, we have considered implied volatilities as well as our historical realized volatilities when developing an estimate of expected volatility. The expected option term also has a significant effect on the value of the option. The longer the term, the more time the option holder has to allow the stock price to increase without a cash investment and thus, the more valuable the option. Further, lengthier option terms provide more opportunity to exploit market highs. However, empirical data show that employees, for a variety of reasons, typically do not wait until the end of the contractual term of a nontransferable option to exercise. Accordingly, companies are required to estimate the expected term of the option for input to an option-pricing model. As required under the accounting rules, we review our valuation assumptions at each grant date and, as a result, from time to time we will likely change the valuation assumptions we use to value stock based awards granted in future periods. The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of 46 Table of Contents share-based payment awards represent management best estimates, but these estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of management judgment. As a result, if factors change and we use different assumptions, our stock-based compensation expense could be materially different in the future. As of December 31, 2013 , $17.1 million of total unrecognized compensation expense related to stock options was expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.62 years and $7.3 million of total unrecognized compensation expense relating to restricted stock units was expected to be recognized over 3.28 years . See Note 11 - Employee Benefit Plans of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion on stock-based compensation. Valuation of Debt and Equity Instruments issued in Connection with August 2012 Offering The 2019 Notes are accounted for in accordance with ASC Subtopic 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options. Under ASC Subtopic 470-20, issuers of certain convertible debt instruments that have a net settlement feature and may be settled in cash upon conversion, including partial cash settlement, are required to separately account for the liability (debt) and equity (conversion option) components of the instrument. The carrying amount of the liability component of any outstanding debt instrument is computed by estimating the fair value of a similar liability without the conversion option. The amount of the equity component is then calculated by deducting the fair value of the liability component from the principal amount of the convertible debt instrument. The effective interest rate used in determining the liability component of the 2019 Notes was 10.09% . See Note 8 - Debt of the Note to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the 2019 Notes. Restructuring Liability In connection with our restructuring activities, we estimate facility-related restructuring charges which represent the present value of the estimated facility costs for which we would obtain no future economic benefit offset by estimated future sublease income, including any credit or debit relating to existing deferred rent balances associated with the vacated building. We derive our estimates based primarily on discussions with our brokers and our own view of market conditions based in part on discussions with potential subtenants. These estimates require significant assumptions regarding the time required to contract with subtenants, the amount of idle space we would be able to sublease and potential future sublease rates. The present value factor, which also affects the level of accreted interest expense that we will recognize as additional restructuring charges over the term of the lease, is based on our estimate of our credit-risk adjusted borrowing rate at the time the initial lease-related restructuring liability is calculated. Changes in the assumptions underlying our estimates could have a material impact on our restructuring charge and restructuring liability. We are required to continue to update our estimate of our restructuring liability in future periods as conditions warrant, and we expect to further revise our estimate in future periods as we continue our discussions with potential subtenants. In addition, in connection with our sublease efforts for our buildings in South San Francisco, if we vacate and sublease these facilities for rates that are not significantly in excess of our costs, we would not likely recover the carrying value of certain assets associated with these facilities. As such, we could potentially recognize additional asset impairment charges, in future periods, if we were to sublease parts of either of these buildings. If the actual amounts differ from our estimates, the amount of restructuring charges could be materially impacted. See Note 4 - Restructurings of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion on our Restructurings. Exelixis International (Bermuda) Ltd. Effective July 2013, Exelixis engaged in intercompany transactions with its wholly-owned subsidiary Exelixis International (Bermuda) Ltd., or Exelixis Bermuda, pursuant to which Exelixis Bermuda acquired the existing and future intellectual property rights to exploit cabozantinib in jurisdictions outside of the United States. Fiscal Year Convention Exelixis has adopted a 52- or 53-week fiscal year that generally ends on the Friday closest to December 31st. Fiscal year 2011, a 52-week year, ended on December 30, 2011, fiscal year 2012, a 52-week year, ended on December 28, 2012, fiscal year 2013, a 52-week year, ended on December 27, 2013, and fiscal year 2014, a 53-week year, will end on January 2, 2015. For convenience, references in this report as of and for the fiscal years ended December 30, 2011, December 28, 2012 and December 27, 2013, are indicated on a calendar year basis, ended December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. 47 Table of Contents Results of Operations Comparison of Years Ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 Revenues Total revenues by category were as follows (dollars in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 License revenues (1) $ 8,380 $ 26,714 $ 245,549 Contract revenues (2) 7,941 20,736 41,309 Collaboration reimbursements 2,778 Net product revenues 15,017 Total revenues $ 31,338 $ 47,450 $ 289,636 Dollar change $ (16,112 ) $ (242,186 ) Percentage change (34 )% (84 )% ____________________ (1) Includes amortization of upfront payments. (2) Includes contingent and milestone payments. Total revenues by customer were as follows (dollars in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Bristol-Myers Squibb $ 16,321 $ 31,253 $ 171,695 Diplomat Specialty Pharmacy 14,004 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum 1,013 Merck 10,667 1,333 Daiichi Sankyo 5,500 Sanofi 30 113,913 Other 2,694 Total revenues $ 31,338 $ 47,450 $ 289,635 Dollar change $ (16,112 ) $ (242,185 ) Percentage change (34 )% (84 )% Revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013 included net product revenues of $15.0 million from the sale of COMETRIQ, which became commercially available in late January 2013 . The decrease in revenues from 2012 to 2013 was due to a decrease in contract and license revenues as a result of having fully recognized all revenues from our collaboration agreements with Bristol-Myers Squibb, $10.7 million in license revenue recognized in 2012 resulting from the completion of the technology transfer under our December 2011 license agreement with Merck for our PI3K-delta program, and a $5.5 million milestone payment received in August 2012 under our collaboration agreement with Daiichi Sankyo for XL550. The decrease in revenues from 2011 to 2012 was primarily due to the acceleration in 2011 of revenues under two collaboration agreements, resulting in an abnormally large amount of license revenue in 2011 and the loss of any license revenues under those agreements beyond 2011. These accelerations consisted of the October 2011 acceleration of $99.1 million of license revenue as a result of the termination of our 2008 collaboration agreement with Bristol Myers-Squibb for XL281, the December 2011 acceleration of $53.1 million in license revenue and a $15.3 million one-time termination fee accrued in December 2011 as a result of the termination in of our 2009 collaboration with Sanofi for the discovery of inhibitors of PI3K. Further contributing to the decrease was a $6.8 million fee received and recognized in 2011 in connection with the transfer in April 2011 of substantially all development activities pertaining to XL147 and XL765 to Sanofi under our 2009 license agreement for these compounds. These decreases in revenues were partially offset by a payment of $5.5 million received from Daiichi Sankyo in August 2012 related to our collaboration agreement for XL550 and $10.7 million in revenue recognized in 2012 under our December 2011 agreement with Merck for our PI3K-delta program. 48 Table of Contents Cost of Goods Sold Cost of goods sold is related to our product revenues and in 2013 consisted primarily of a 3% royalty we are required to pay GlaxoSmithKline and indirect labor costs, and to a lesser extent, the cost of manufacturing and other third party logistics costs for our product. A significant portion of the manufacturing costs for 2013 product sales was incurred prior to regulatory approval of COMETRIQ for the treatment of progressive, metastatic MTC and, therefore, was expensed as research and development costs when those costs were incurred, rather than capitalized as inventory. For 2013, the cost of goods sold was $1.1 million and our gross margin was 93%. The cost of goods sold and product gross margins we have experienced in this early stage of our product launch may not be representative of what we may experience going forward. Research and Development Expenses Total research and development expenses were as follows (dollars in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Research and development expenses $ 178,763 $ 128,878 $ 156,836 Dollar change $ 49,885 $ (27,958 ) Percentage change 39 % (18 )% Research and development expenses consist primarily of clinical trial expenses, personnel expenses, allocation of general corporate costs, consulting and outside services, stock-based compensation and expenses for temporary employees. The increase in 2013 as compared to 2012 was primarily driven by increases in clinical trial costs, which include services performed by CROs and other vendors who support our clinical trials. Those increases in clinical trial costs were $43.1 million, or 75%, for 2013 as compared 2012. The increases in clinical trial costs were primarily related to clinical trial activities for COMET-1, and METEOR, our phase 3 pivotal trials in metastatic CRPC and metastatic RCC, respectively, as well as costs incurred in connection with the start-up of CELESTIAL, our phase 3 pivotal trial for advanced HCC. The increases in costs for those trials were partially offset by lower clinical trial costs related to the continued wind down of various phase 2 studies for cabozantinib, most notably the RDT as well as the EXAM trial for cabozantinib in patients with MTC. There were additional increases in research and development expenses for 2013, related to consulting and outside services, personnel, temporary personnel, and stock-based compensation. Consulting and outside services increased by $3.6 million primarily as a result of the engagement of additional medical science liaisons required to support our increased clinical trial activities. Personnel increased by $3.4 million primarily due to hiring undertaken as a result of increased clinical trial activities as well as wage increases. Temporary personnel increased by $1.7 million primarily due to increased clinical trial activities. Stock-based compensation increased by $1.4 million primarily as a result of an increase in the number and valuation of new grants as well as an increase in the participation and valuation of purchases under our 2000 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Those increases were partially offset by decreases of $1.4 million in depreciation and amortization expense primarily as a result of the impairment and disposition of assets related to the Restructurings and the impact of additional assets becoming fully depreciated during 2012 and a decrease in the overhead allocation of general corporate costs of $1.5 million (such as facility costs, property taxes and insurance) to research and development, primarily due to a decrease in allocable costs. The decrease in 2012 compared to 2011, was primarily due to decrease in clinical trial costs in that period. Those decreases in clinical trial costs were $17.6 million, or 23%, during 2012. The decreases in clinical trial costs were primarily due to the gradual wind down of our RDT and EXAM, various cabozantinib clinical pharmacology studies that occurred in 2011 in support of our NDA filing for progressive, metastatic MTC, the transfer of XL147 and XL765 to Sanofi in 2011, and the termination of our 2008 agreement with Bristol Myers-Squibb for XL281 in 2011. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in clinical trial activities for our COMET-1 and COMET-2 trials, as well as an increase in chemistry, manufacturing and control, or CMC, expenses associated with commercial launch preparation and increases for various IST trials, resulting in a net decrease for 2012. There were additional decreases in research and development expenses for 2012 in the overhead allocation of general corporate costs to research and development of $5.0 million, primarily due to a decrease in allocable costs, personnel of $1.7 million and stock-based compensation expense of $1.5 million primarily due to the reduction in headcount related to the Restructurings, depreciation and amortization expense of $1.5 million primarily as a result of the impairment and disposition of assets related to the Restructurings and the impact of additional assets becoming fully depreciated during 2011 and 2012 and temporary of $1.4 million and lab supplies of $1.0 million as a result of the Restructurings. The above decreases were partially 49 Table of Contents offset by an increase in consulting expenses of $2.1 million primarily as a result of increased outsourcing of development and clinical trial activities. Historically, we grouped our research and development expenses into three categories: development, drug discovery and other. As noted under Overview , we are focusing our proprietary resources and development efforts exclusively on cabozantinib in order to maximize the therapeutic and commercial potential of this compound, and as a result, we expect nearly all of our future research and development expenses to relate to the clinical development of cabozantinib. Additionally, as a consequence of our focus on cabozantinib, we have discontinued all of our drug discovery efforts, including those previously funded under our ROR collaboration agreement with Bristol-Myers Squibb following the completion of our obligations in July 2013. As a result of this shift in business strategy and the limited relevance of the disclosure with respect to our current operations, we no longer disclose the breakdown of our research and development expenses by category. We expect to continue to incur significant development costs for cabozantinib in future periods as we evaluate it potential in a variety of cancer indications through a broad development program, including two ongoing phase 3 pivotal trials in metastatic CRPC, a phase 3 pivotal trial in metastatic RCC, and an ongoing phase 3 pivotal trial in advanced HCC. We also expect to expand the cabozantinib development program to other solid tumor indications, based on encouraging interim data that have emerged from our phase 2 RDT as well as other clinical trials. In addition, postmarketing commitments in connection with the approval of COMETRIQ in progressive, metastatic MTC dictate that we conduct additional studies in that indication. We do not have reliable estimates regarding the timing of our clinical trials. We estimate that typical phase 1 clinical trials last approximately one year, phase 2 clinical trials last approximately one to two years and phase 3 clinical trials last approximately two to four years. However, the length of time may vary substantially according to factors relating to the particular clinical trial, such as the type and intended use of the drug candidate, the clinical trial design and the ability to enroll suitable patients. We do not have reliable estimates of total costs for a particular drug candidate, or for cabozantinib for a particular indication, to reach the market. Our potential therapeutic products are subject to a lengthy and uncertain regulatory process that may involve unanticipated additional clinical trials and may not result in receipt of the necessary regulatory approvals. Failure to receive the necessary regulatory approvals would prevent us from commercializing the product candidates affected. In addition, clinical trials of our potential product candidates may fail to demonstrate safety and efficacy, which could prevent or significantly delay regulatory approval. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Total selling, general and administrative expenses were as follows (dollars in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 50,958 $ 31,837 $ 33,129 Dollar change $ 19,121 $ (1,292 ) Percentage change 60 % (4 )% Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel expenses, consulting and outside services, facility costs, employee stock-based compensation expense, patent costs, marketing, computer and office supplies, and other legal and accounting fees. These expenses also include selling and distribution costs in 2013 as a result of the commercial launch of COMETRIQ in late January 2013 . Approximately half of the increases for 2013 as compared 2012 were a result of an increase in expenses related to our U.S. sales force and our European distribution partner for the sale of COMETRIQ. The remaining increases were related to an increase of $3.2 million of personnel expenses, an increase of $1.7 million in legal and accounting fees, an increase of $1.7 million of employee stock-based compensation expense, an increase of $1.5 million in patent costs, and the reduced overhead allocations to research and development. These increases we re partially offset by a decrease of $1.4 million in facilities costs. In late 2013, we internalized our outside sales function . The decrease in general and administrative expense s for 2012, as compared to 2011, was primarily related to decreases in facility costs, legal and accounting fees, employee stock-based compensation expense, and depreciation and amortization. These decreases were partially offset by increases in marketing and commercialization activities in preparation for the commercial launch of COMETRIQ for progressive, metastatic MTC and reduced allocations to research and development as a result of lower headcount. 50 Table of Contents Restructuring Charge Between March 2010 and May 2013, we implemented the Restructurings. The aggregate reduction in headcount from the Restructurings was 429 employees. We recorded charges and credits related to the Restructurings in periods other than those in which the Restructurings were implemented as a result of sublease activities for our buildings in South San Francisco, California, changes in assumptions regarding anticipated sublease activities, the effect of the passage of time on our discounted cash flow computations, previously planned employee terminations, and sales of excess equipment and other assets. Total charges from our Restructurings were as follows (dollars in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Restructuring charge $ 1,231 $ 9,171 $ 10,136 Dollar change $ (7,940 ) $ (965 ) Percentage change (87 )% (10 )% The 2013 restructuring charge related to termination benefits and was partially offset by a $0.7 million credit resulting from a new sublease entered into during the year. The 2012 restructuring charge was primarily related to termination benefits in May 2012 and the December 2012 determination to extend disuse of most of the remaining space in one building for the remainder of the lease term. Our 2011 restructuring charge was primarily facility-related charges that relate to portions of two additional buildings in South San Francisco and took into consideration our entry into two sublease agreements for the majority of one of these buildings in July 2011 as well as charges relating to the short-term exit of the second floor of another building in December 2011. Total Other Income (Expense), net Total other income (expense), net, were as follows (dollars in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Interest income and other, net $ 1,223 $ 1,986 $ 1,462 Interest expense (45,347 ) (27,088 ) (16,259 ) Gain on sale of businesses 2,254 Total other income (expense), net $ (44,124 ) $ (25,102 ) $ (12,543 ) Dollar change $ (19,022 ) $ (12,559 ) Total other income (expense), net consists primarily of interest expense incurred on our debt, partially offset by interest income earned on our cash and investments and gains on sales of businesses. The change in total other expense, net for 2013, compared to the 2012 and 2011, was primarily due to the increased interest expense resulting from the August 2012 issuance of the 2019 Notes. Interest expense includes aggregate non-cash interest expense on both the 2019 Notes and the Deerfield Notes of $26.3 million and $15.6 million and $8.3 million , for 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively. Income Tax Provision The income tax (benefit) provision were as follows (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Income tax (benefit) provision $ (96 ) $ 107 $ 1,295 Dollar change $ (203 ) $ (1,188 ) The 2013 income tax benefit resulted from the exception to the general intra-period allocation rules required by ASC 740-20-45-7, and is related to the income tax effect of unrealized gains on available-for-sale investments included in other comprehensive income. $0.1 million and $0.6 million of the 2012 and 2011 income tax provision, respectively, related to an adjustment resulting from a further evaluation of qualified expenses for refunds received in 2009 and 2010 as a result of the enactment of the Housing and Economy Recovery Act of 2008 and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Tax Act of 2009. 51 Table of Contents The remaining $0.7 million of the 2011 provision related to a tax deferred revenue adjustment that resulted in a state tax liability due to state net operating loss carryover limitations. During 2013, Exelixis Bermuda acquired the existing and future intellectual property rights to exploit cabozantinib in jurisdictions outside of the United States. The transfer of the existing rights created a taxable gain in the U.S. and state jurisdictions. For tax purposes, that gain is primarily offset by current fiscal year losses and the remainder through the utilization of an insignificant amount of net operating loss carry-forwards for which there is a corresponding reduction to our valuation allowance. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources and Uses of Cash The following table summarizes our cash flow activities for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011 (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Net (loss) income $ (244,760 ) $ (147,645 ) $ 75,697 Adjustments to reconcile net (loss) income to net cash used in operating activities 48,255 33,137 29,954 Changes in operating assets and liabilities (2,268 ) (8,638 ) (264,884 ) Net cash used in operating activities (198,773 ) (123,146 ) (159,233 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 144,351 (259,470 ) (51,463 ) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (11,669 ) 478,428 187,513 Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents (66,091 ) 95,812 (23,183 ) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 170,069 74,257 97,440 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year $ 103,978 $ 170,069 $ 74,257 To date, we have financed our operations primarily through the sale of equity, payments and loans from collaborators and banks, debt financing arrangements and equipment financing facilities. We have also financed certain of our research and development activities under our agreements with various collaborators. As of December 31, 2013, we had $415.9 million in cash and investments, which included short- and long-term restricted cash and investments of $12.2 million and $16.9 million and short- and long-term unrestricted investments of $1.8 million and $81.9 million that we are required to maintain on deposit with Silicon Valley Bank or one of its affiliates pursuant to covenants in our loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank. In addition, in January 2014 we sold 10.0 million shares of our common stock in an underwritten public offering, raising approximately $75.6 million of net proceeds. Operating Activities Our operating activities used cash of $198.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, compared to $123.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, and $159.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. Cash used in operating activities for 2013 related primarily to our $232.1 million in operating expenses, less non-cash expenses for accretion of debt discount totaling $26.3 million , stock-based compensation totaling $12.0 million , amortization of discounts and premiums on investments totaling $6.8 million , and depreciation and amortization totaling $3.1 million . Our operating expenses were primarily attributable to the development of cabozantinib. In addition, we paid $6.8 million for restructuring activities during the period. All of our license and contract revenues during 2013 were non-cash, which was reflected in the $14.9 million reduction in deferred revenue during the period. Cash used in operating activities for 2012 related primarily to our $169.9 million in operating expenses for the year, less non-cash expenses for stock-based compensation and depreciation and amortization totaling $8.8 million and $5.7 million, respectively. Our operating expenses were largely attributable to the development of cabozantinib. In addition, we paid $6.3 million for our Restructurings during 2012. These uses of cash were partially offset by the receipt of $27.3 million in cash in January 2012 relating to the termination of our 2009 discovery collaboration with Sanofi in December 2011 and the upfront payment received from Merck under our P13K-delta license agreement. As significant portion of our other 2012 revenues were non-cash, which was reflected in the $41.9 million reduction in deferred revenue during the year. Cash paid for interest of $7.0 million was significantly lower than our interest expense of $27.1 million due in large part to accretion of implied interest 52 Table of Contents under the Deerfield Notes and the 2019 Notes. The decrease in cash used for operating activities during 2012 as compared 2011 was primarily due to the decrease in operating expenses during those periods. Cash used in operating activities for 2011 related primarily to our $200.1 million in operating expenses for the year, less non-cash expenses for stock-based compensation totaling $12.1 million, non-cash expenses for accretion of debt discount totaling $8.0 million and depreciation and amortization totaling $6.8 million. In addition, there was an increase in our receivables balance relating to our collaboration agreements and a reduction in our other accrual balances due to the timing of payments made to vendors. Except for 2011, we have been in a net loss position and our cash used in operating activities has been primarily driven by our net loss. Operating cash flows can differ from our consolidated net loss as a result of differences in the timing of cash receipts and earnings recognition and non-cash charges. For at least the next several years, we expect to continue to use cash for operating activities as we incur net losses associated with our research and development activities, primarily with respect to manufacturing and development expenses for cabozantinib. Investing Activities Our investing activities provided cash of $144.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, compared to cash used of $259.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, and cash used of $51.5 million for 2011. Cash provided by investing activities for 2013 was primarily due to the maturity of investments of $325.2 million , partially offset by investment purchases of $190.0 million . Cash used by investing activities for 2012 was primarily due to the purchase of $533.5 million of investments and a net increase in restricted cash of $36.0 million, primarily in connection with the 2019 Notes. These uses were partially offset by proceeds from the maturity of investments of $310.8 million. Cash used by investing activities for 2011 was primarily driven by the purchase of $237.2 million in investments partially offset by proceeds received from the maturity of investments of $124.8 million, proceeds from the sale of investments before maturity of $55.2 million and proceeds of $3.0 million from the sale of our 19.9% equity ownership in Artemis. Financing Activities Our financing activities used cash of $11.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, compared to cash provided of $478.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, and cash provided of $187.5 million for 2011. Cash used for financing activities for 2013 was primarily due to principal payments on debt of $13.2 million . Cash provided by our financing activities for 2012 was due to the issuance of 12.7 million shares of common stock in February 2012 and 34.5 million shares of common stock in August 2012 for total net proceeds of $203.5 million, as well as the issuance and sale of the 2019 Notes for net proceeds of $277.7 million. Cash provided by our financing activities for 2011 consisted of net proceeds of $179.4 million from the issuance of 17.3 million shares of common stock, proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $12.4 million and the final draw down of $2.6 million required under our Silicon Valley Bank loan agreement. These increases in cash were partially offset by cash used for principal payments on notes payable and bank obligations of $8.6 million. Proceeds from collaboration loans and common stock issuances are used for general working capital purposes, such as research and development activities and other general corporate purposes. Over the next several years, we are required to make certain payments on notes and bank obligations. In 2010, we amended our loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank to provide for a new seven-year term loan in the amount of $80.0 million. In addition, we entered into a note purchase agreement with Deerfield pursuant to which we sold to Deerfield an aggregate $124.0 million initial principal amount of the Deerfield Notes for an aggregate purchase price of $80.0 million, less closing fees and expenses of approximately $2.0 million. In August 2012, we incurred $287.5 million of indebtedness through the issuance of the 2019 Notes. See ---Certain Factors Important to Understanding Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 8 - Debt of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on these agreements. Cash Requirements We have incurred annual net losses since inception through the year ended December 31, 2013 , with the exception of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011. In 2011, we had net income primarily as a result of the acceleration of revenue recognized under our 2008 collaboration agreement with Bristol-Myers Squibb that terminated in October 2011 and under our 53 Table of Contents 2009 discovery collaboration agreement with Sanofi that terminated in December 2011. We anticipate net losses and negative operating cash flow for the foreseeable future. For the year ended December 31, 2013 , we had a net loss of $244.8 million ; as of December 31, 2013 , we had an accumulated deficit of $1.5 billion . We commercially launched COMETRIQ for the treatment of progressive, metastatic MTC in the United States in late January 2013 . From the commercial launch through December 31, 2013 , we have generated $15.0 million in net revenues from the sale of COMETRIQ. We have derived substantially all of our revenues since inception from collaborative research and development agreements. Revenues from research and development collaborations depend on research funding, the achievement of milestones, and royalties we earn from any future products developed from the collaborative research. If we are unable to successfully achieve milestones or our collaborators fail to develop successful products, we will not earn the revenues contemplated under such collaborative agreements. The amount of our net losses will depend, in part, on the rate of growth, if any, in our sales of COMETRIQ for progressive, metastatic MTC, license and contract revenues and on the level of our expenses. These losses have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders equity and working capital. Our research and development expenditures and general and administrative expenses have exceeded our revenues for each year other than 2011, and we expect to spend significant additional amounts to fund the continued development of cabozantinib. As a result, we expect to continue to incur substantial operating expenses, and, consequently, we will need to generate significant additional revenues to achieve future profitability. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing drugs, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if at all. We anticipate that our current cash and cash equivalents, short- and long-term investments and product revenues will enable us to maintain our operations for a period of at least 12 months following the end of 2013. However, our future capital requirements will be substantial, and we may need to raise additional capital in the future. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, and we may need to use available capital resources and raise additional capital significantly earlier than we currently anticipate. These factors include: the progress and scope of the development and commercialization activities with respect to COMETRIQ (cabozantinib); repayment of the 2019 Notes; repayment of the Deerfield Notes; repayment of our loan from Silicon Valley Bank; the commercial success of COMETRIQ and the revenues we generate; the level of payments received under existing collaboration agreements, licensing agreements and other arrangements; the degree to which we conduct funded development activity on behalf of partners to whom we have out-licensed compounds or programs; whether we enter into new collaboration agreements, licensing agreements or other arrangements (including, in particular, with respect to COMETRIQ (cabozantinib)) that provide additional capital; our ability to control costs; our ability to remain in compliance with, or amend or cause to be waived, financial covenants contained in agreements with third parties; the amount of our cash and cash equivalents, short- and long-term investments that serve as collateral for bank lines of credit; future clinical trial results; our need to expand our product and clinical development efforts; the cost and timing of regulatory approvals; the cost of clinical and research supplies of our product candidates; our obligation to share U.S. marketing and commercialization costs for cobimetinib under our collaboration with Genentech; our ability to share the costs of our clinical development efforts with third parties; the effect of competing technological and market developments; the filing, maintenance, prosecution, defense and enforcement of patent claims and other intellectual property rights; and the cost of any acquisitions of or investments in businesses, products and technologies. We may seek to raise funds through the sale of equity or debt securities or through external borrowings. In addition, we may enter into additional strategic partnerships, collaborative arrangements or other strategic transactions. It is unclear 54 Table of Contents whether any such partnership, arrangement or transaction will occur, on satisfactory terms or at all, or what the timing and nature of such a partnership, arrangement or transaction may be. The sale of equity or convertible debt securities in the future may be dilutive to our stockholders, and debt-financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain assets and enter into covenants that would restrict certain business activities or our ability to incur further indebtedness, and may contain other terms that are not favorable to our stockholders or us. If we are unable to obtain adequate funds on reasonable terms, we may be required to curtail operations significantly or obtain funds by entering into financing, supply or collaboration agreements on unattractive terms or we may be required to relinquish rights to technology or product candidates or to grant licenses on terms that are unfavorable to us. We may need to obtain additional funding in order to stay in compliance with financial covenants contained in our loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank. The loan and security agreement requires that we maintain an amount equal to at least 100%, but not to exceed 107%, of the outstanding principal balance of the term loan and all equipment lines of credit under the loan and security agreement at all times in one or more investment accounts with Silicon Valley Bank or one of its affiliates as support for our obligations under the loan and security agreement. If the balance on our deposit account(s) falls below the required level for more than 10 days, Silicon Valley Bank may declare all or part of the obligations under the loan and security agreement to be immediately due and payable and stop advancing money or extending credit to us. If we are unable to remain in compliance with our financial covenants or if we are unable to renegotiate such covenants and the lender exercises its remedies under the agreement, we would not be able to operate under our current operating plan. We have contractual obligations in the form of debt, loans payable, operating leases, purchase obligations and other long-term liabilities. The following chart details our contractual obligations, including any potential accrued or accreted interest, as of December 31, 2013 (in thousands): Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total Less than 1 year 1-3 Years 4-5 years More than 5 years Convertible notes (1) $ 401,500 $ 10,000 $ 104,000 $ $ 287,500 Loans payable (2) 82,090 1,762 328 80,000 Operating leases (3) 68,389 19,896 36,583 11,910 Purchase obligations (4) 830 830 Other long-term liabilities 66 7 59 Total contractual cash obligations $ 552,875 $ 32,495 $ 140,911 $ 91,969 $ 287,500 ____________________ (1) Includes our obligations under the Deerfield Notes and the 2019 Notes. See ---Certain Factors Important to Understanding Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 8 - Debt of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements regarding the terms of the Deerfield Notes and the 2019 Notes. (2) Includes our obligations under our loan from Silicon Valley Bank. See ---Certain Factors Important to Understanding Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 8 - Debt of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements regarding the terms of our loan from Silicon Valley Bank. (3) The operating lease payments do not include $16.1 million to be received through 2017 in connection with the sublease for three of our South San Francisco buildings. (4) At December 31, 2013, we had firm purchase commitments related to manufacturing and maintenance of inventory. These commitments include a portion of our 2014 contractual minimum purchase obligation. Our actual purchases are expected to significantly exceed these amounts. In connection with the sale of our plant trait business, we agreed to indemnify the purchaser and its affiliates up to a specified amount if they incur damages due to any infringement or alleged infringement of certain patents. We have certain collaboration licensing agreements, which contain standard indemnification clauses. Such clauses typically indemnify the customer or vendor for an adverse judgment in a lawsuit in the event of our misuse or negligence. We consider the likelihood of an adverse judgment related to an indemnification agreement to be remote. Furthermore, in the event of an adverse judgment, any losses under such an adverse judgment may be substantially offset by corporate insurance. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In July 2012, ASC Topic 350, Testing Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets for Impairment was amended to permit a reporting entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform the annual quantitative impairment test for indefinite-lived intangible assets. This guidance was effective January 1, 2013. The adoption of this amendment did not affect our financial position or results of operations. In February 2013, ASC Topic 220, Comprehensive Income was amended to require additional information about amounts 55 Table of Contents reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income. We adopted this guidance beginning January 1, 2013, and will provide the additional information when such reclassifications occur. The adoption of this amendment did not affect our financial position or results of operations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2013, we did not have any material off-balance-sheet arrangements, as defined by applicable SEC regulations. 
